and we're live hey what's up hey thanks
for having me on this blog so my
pleasure
good to see you again to say you you
know when we first met I knew you were
an author and I knew that Chris Pratt
was involved and doing that thing with
you and that you guys were working
towards making it which is happening now
very exciting
but I'd never read into your work until
now so getting ready for this I actually
listened to the audiobook which is
really well done the guy who reads it
what is his name ray Porter he's fucking
great yeah he's a little disturbing he
doesn't girl's voice but no getting
around that guy's doing a girl voice
especially put an accent to it there's
like no getting around the creates a
little weird but you you take he's so
good at like Russian accents and then
South African accents and it's a really
good book man it's fucking riveting like
kids thank you it's hard to put down
it's it's really good and most of it I
listen to either on workouts walking
hikes with the dog or in the sauna nice
perfect let's do it I burned through it
in a few days it's really good man yeah
do you know like half the characters are
the one people that were inspired by
actual I know that was crazies like so
many people whether it was you know John
Dudley or barklow or you know half face
blades like black rifle coffee icon 4x4
there's so many different things Sitka
yeah so many different things that rage
not me not to talk about gear just cuz I
was a gear guy before I went the Navy
and then of course in the SEAL Teams
you're like you that's your time to
shine and to like go down these rabbit
holes and try to make the gear better or
anything that's gonna make you more
effective and efficient on the
battlefield so he really gets it go
all-in and then just after the military
same thing I'm just a gear guy so it'd
be strange just to say he pulled out a
rifle you know or something like that I
couldn't do it I just wouldn't sit right
when you were in the SEAL team did you
think you were ever going to become an
author is something that you had always
had in the back your head you would like
to dabble in someday like yeah yeah it
wasn't even a thing I was gonna dabble
in it was I was going to do it and since
I was little kid my mom is librarian so
I grew up surrounded by books and this
love of reading from a very early age
and back then like so early 80s there
totally anything written about seals
about what there is
is a lot of times from fiction so
tagging us in different stories by guys
like Tom Clancy David Morelle Nelson
DeMille
H a quenelle all these guys in the 80s
go ahead protagonists with backgrounds I
wanted to have in real life one day and
I enjoyed reading them so much I knew
that after the military then I would
write so I just said wow the path so you
had kind of mapped it out join the
military first join the seals and then
after you retire then and and how many
years were you in for about 20 you were
in for two and then during that time you
would always mapped out that you were
going to be an author when you were done
yep yeah Britany thought me whitewall I
was and I wasn't writing I wasn't
practicing but I was reading so I'm
first I'm a fan I'm always a reader both
fiction and non so all those guys I read
in the 80s those are like my professors
in the art of storytelling and then I
coupled that with the academic study of
warfare terrorism insurgency
counterinsurgencies and then the
practical application from Afghanistan
from Iraq and then it all kind of came
together at the right time in place as I
was getting out so for that last like
year year and a half then I started
writing because I wasn't taking guys
downrange anymore my job was essentially
to get out of the military and because
it's you feel like you're the first
person to do it even though people do it
everyday but you walk in you need to get
something sign or go to a meeting or
gets read out of a secret program or
what a medical or dental so your job
becomes to get out of this gigantic
bureaucracy so dirty that takes like a
year I mean you can really do it really
like Jocko didn't do any of it matters
day he's just like no you know yeah I
didn't do these transition classes
you're supposed to do and you sit there
in these rooms and people drone on and
on about transition and options for you
and you're awful horrible but but I did
it I thought you had to is I get
something side and off you go but you
don't have to do it I think you do just
Ronco didn't think that's what he told
me he's like no I didn't lose gonna tell
him to do it right no one's gonna say
you have to do this good luck yeah so so
you were planning all along too right
and so during that time while you were
being deployed and while you're you know
you're being a seal in the back of your
head that was always a part of the plan
yeah that was when I'm done with this
then I'll
that so I wasn't thinking about how to
set it up but no anyone in publishing
didn't know anything but I knew that one
day that's what I would do and it wasn't
even a question but you clearly had
equal enthusiasm for being a seal as
well yes oh yeah you have that's why
they had to be separate so I had to be
100% all-in on being a seal because you
have to that's what you owe the guys
under your command when you're going
downrange that's what you owe their
families the country the mission but
when I got home from that last Iraq
deployment and took a breath and looked
around and saw my family needs me I've
been gone for quite some time even when
your training come your training you're
out for three weeks here two weeks there
a month they're getting ready to deploy
so it's not just the six to seven month
deployment it's all that time spent
training up to go downrange with your
team so I knew that my family needed me
it's time to get out so it was very
clear wasn't a hard decision I mean
beside I'd gotten to the end of my time
where I would tactically lead guys on
the battlefield
so that's a troop commander so that's
where jakka was when he did his last
deployment as a troop commander isn't o4
which is a major and the other services
a lieutenant commander in the Navy and
after that yeah you're still a leader
but you're leading from behind
essentially or then tactical operations
center you're more of a manager type
leader you're not out there kicking
doors with the guys which is what we all
come in to do where most of us come in
to do anyway so I knew that that part of
my life was over it was time to
transition take care of the family so
it's time to start writing did you take
journalism classes or writing classes or
nope is all the reading all that reading
I did growing up and my mom introduced
me to a guy named Joseph Campbell back
in nature so he did a series of
interviews with Bill Moyers on PBS
called the power of myth and he wrote a
book called hero with a thousand faces
so back in 1988 so I'm I don't know 11
years old or whatever 12 I get
introduced to him and I read that book
and I watched all those interviews and I
read the book that came out called the
power of myth based on those interviews
and I think I applied that paradigm that
model of the hero's journey
the monolith to really everything every
movie I watched every series I watched
every book I read from then on and that
really helped as I made the transition
because I had this foundation it wasn't
just like I woke up one day and said you
know what can you make money at writing
oh that sounds like a good thing to do
I'll go back and read and I'll go back
and see kind of figure out the history
of the genre
no I already have that figured out
because I did it in my whole life and it
was that foundation that was already
there and while I was in the military I
kept reading for fun I read those
fiction books still and I've discovered
Stephen hunter and Brad Thor and Vince
Flynn and Daniel Silva and and now Marc
granny today so those are kind of the
bigger names in the genre and but then I
was also studying studying all that
nonfiction stuff trying to stay up on my
game to make might make the best
decisions I possibly could under fire
for the guys when it mattered so I'm
just always studying always reading when
I was downrange I never really watched a
movie or played video games
it was always if I wasn't out operating
it we weren't putting together a target
package I was reading that's interesting
because I would think that most people
that would venture and become a
professional novelist they would have
some sort of background in writing like
some sort of education some classical
education English literature or
something ya know is all reading it was
all what I liked no one what I didn't
like and that's why the first novel is
really all about revenge because that
theme resonated with me obviously it's
resonated with people from the beginning
of time from telling those stories
around campfires usually told in a way
to pass on some sort of a lesson about
something to the next generation so they
don't have to learn the same lessons in
blood but they're told as a story and
passed down that way and I think that's
that's why there's so many Deathwish
movies because you can't if someone cuts
me off in traffic you can't go on to
something or someone you know work
there's some politics you don't get the
promotion over that read get mad you
can't do anything about it but you can
in the pages of a novel you can escape
there or you can escape in the movie
theater and you can see somebody that
goes out and guess it's revenge and it
makes you feel good because you know you
can't do it coz in real life if you do
it you're gonna go to jail you get the
death penalty it's not possible but you
can do it and if you can explore all
that in the pages of a fictional
thriller so I think it's why it
resonates with with people and then in
this particular case I got to take the
emotions and feelings behind things I
was involved in downrange and then just
apply them to a fictional narrative so I
didn't have to talk to somebody and say
hey did it feel to be a sniper in Ramadi
in 2005-2006 and then filter that
through whatever biases I had or
whatever Mike's past experience or
whatever and then put it into a
fictional narrative no I just took my
experience and then just
morphed it and put it into the narrative
so it ended up being very therapeutic
so did you approach an agent first like
how did you get started thank goodness I
didn't know you're supposed to do that
because I probably still be looking for
one today so I did very little research
on that front because I think that a lot
of people can study how to do something
too much or too long it's gonna be
different for everybody but you know
some people can study how to do
something their whole life and never
actually do it because you only have
certain amount of bandwidth and for me I
read so Steven Pressfield who's become a
great friend now he was on this show a
while back you look so great it rotates
a fire I'll let you two back advance the
Afghan campaign and then has those
series of books on creativity the war of
art yeah just you gave that out to
people right for a while I got a stack
of them the days to keep it the studio
yeah so he's uh he's amazing actually
listening to him on this show before I
started writing gave me the idea of
writing a one-word theme down to keep me
on on point so I wrote revenge for that
first novel on a yellow sticky but he
didn't really say this on your show he's
talking about somebody else who a
playwright who would write a sentence to
keep him on theme but somehow through my
filters I heard him say a one word theme
on a yellow sticky on my computer and so
I did the same thing so wasn't it's not
really what he said on the show but I
took it as what he said and I wrote him
down and that really for the first book
revenge second book redemption and then
fourth book I'm or third book I morphed
a little bit dark side a man but so
those are the themes that really kept me
on track but and you're on the fourth
one right now you're on the fourth one
yeah how long does it take you to do one
the first one can take as long as you
want because you have to have for
fiction you have to have the finished
product so for nonfiction you can sell
like an idea a chapter and outline
something like that we're coming from
sports or politics you know you can sell
that idea because they know they're
gonna get some sales for this you have
to have the whole manuscript done so the
first one took about just shy of two
years and you get it as good as you can
possibly get it then what you're
supposed to do is go to an agent but I
didn't know that thank goodness because
I didn't do it I did that research I
talked about with steven pressfield's
books on creativity war of art authentic
swing turning pro do the work read those
read Stephen King's on writing
David's grill yeah Stephen King's book
it's not a biography really it's not
just about writing yeah it is his entire
life
David morels the sucessful novelist I
think those were those are the main ones
that I had that I read and then I was
like okay got it and I put those within
sight of me in my computer but I didn't
touch him again
and I but they were there so I would
look to them for inspiration as far as
Stephen hunter says your professor sorry
Stephen Pressfield says you're a
professional you're a writer you sit
down and write the writer's block
doesn't exist because it doesn't exist
for dentists or truckers or doctors yeah
I get doctors block so you don't get
writer's block you're professional and
you're right so just having them that
close really helped with that transition
and I made the decision to now once I
was a seal and now I write so I think
that really helped but I didn't know you
needed you needed an agent and thank
goodness I didn't because otherwise like
I said it'd still be looking for one
because those are the gatekeepers
essentially a name assistants that we've
engaged to them so it's it's tough I
think but lucky for me a friend of mine
sat next to a guy named Brad Thor who
writes in the genre as a character
called Scott Horvath who's a former SEAL
and he's a great guy
my friend sat next to him at one of
these events fort raise money for a seal
Foundation type thing and as I'm writing
I'm about four months in and my buddy
says hey you know this guy named Brad
Thor and I said well yeah I don't know
him but I read all this stuff and he
said you want to talk to him I know you
write in a book and I said yeah I'd love
to talk to him that'd be what he talked
to me and he said yeah I'll set it up
helped him out with a couple things on
in his books so sure enough he sets it
up and actually I'm up at your event in
LA at the time I was trying to find a
quiet place to have this call with Brad
Thor so I go to the parking lot at the
Terranea Resort parking lot up there
sun's beating down and my old my land
cruiser so everything's off though the
engines off cause it's so loud and and I
thought my paper there I'm sweating but
sure enough we have this great call and
and I was like a job interview I think
he wanted to know like hey why do you
want to write and I told him the same
stuff I'd tell you or tell everybody
that I grew up loving reading and knew I
was going to do this one day and about
my mom being a librarian and knowing the
history of the genre and all that and
just being excited about it he could
sense the passion and he's like alright
so if you write a book what I can do for
you your friend told me some things you
did in the SEAL Teams
and as a thank you for that I'll let my
publisher know what's coming
I can't guarantee they'll open the
package can't guarantee they'll read one
word definitely can't guarantee that
they'll like it but as a thank you I can
let them know what's coming and I said
that's all I need and he said how long
till you're done I said one year from
today and so he's like all right don't
call me chapters your first book how did
you know one year from today you'd be
done because I was because other guys
that have serious characters have one
book a year and so I figured that's
about four months into it so I was like
I give or take a couple months so sure
enough I I called them back one year
from the day and he's like but he said
hey don't don't call me don't send me
chapters I'm not gonna give you any
advice and he did give me some advice on
that call but he didn't bugging him
throughout the year right which I
totally understand now and call them
back a year from then said it's done and
to his credit it was so awesome he said
is it done
or is it the best you can possibly make
it and I said well I could probably edit
it a little bit but it's finished and
he's like all right call me back again
you can possibly do so I took another
four months of reading it and editing it
sending it to a couple friends and and
call them back four months later and
said this is the best I can possibly get
it he said all right I'll let them know
it's coming so how many hours a day do
you think you were putting in gosh so
it's not like hours I mean I would love
to get on a discipline type schedule
like a Jocko type schedule someday but
I'm not quite there yet
especially at this stage where I'm still
feel life so feel like this is a startup
and I can't say no to a lot of things I
need to take advantage of emerging
opportunities just like I would on the
battlefield looking at the enemy they're
learning from us we're learning from
them and it's really who would apps
quicker you're looking for those
emerging opportunities taking advantage
of momentum looking for gaps so the same
things that you would do for a startup
or starting like a coffee shop somewhere
you have to do for writing and I didn't
really get that at the outs like how so
so I did you
you're not just writing and sending it
to New York which is what I thought up
until about the time I've published the
first one I thought you just went back
and forth with an editor a little bit
and then you start the next book well
really you have to do advertising
branding co-branding your marketing
stuff your budgets your social
like anything you would have to do with
any other business that you're starting
out you have to do as an author so so I
kind of treated it as a startup and
starting it like just like you're
starting something in your garage and
you're hungry and you're passionate and
you're seeing an opportunity here or
there you're and you just want to build
this readership and let people know that
you have this character and see where it
goes so so it's been a sprint so point
being at some point I think you get to a
stage where you can say no and you don't
have to sprint off in all these
different directions almost at the same
time and you can say okay you know what
I'm gonna do I'm gonna wake up I'm gonna
write for four hours and it doesn't
matter if someone calls for an interview
or if CNN once you want or Fox News once
you want doesn't matter I'm just gonna
do my four hours and then after that
then I'll check my text then I'll check
my emails and if something comes up yeah
we can schedule it out and later later
in the week but right now it's just like
oh really Fox wants me on BAM and then
all of a sudden no I'm not writing for
those four hours usually it's the first
novel and these then is all the others
we're really done between 10:00 at night
and about 4:00 in the morning because
that's the time it was quiet in our
house with three kids dog wife yeah
that's how you stand up to the same
thing when everyone's asleep best work
because there's no one interrupting does
that feel like they can't work like that
and they only work good if they get up
in the morning and then right
immediately they're right even before
breakfast
so I was getting up and working out like
that until I've been till the
publication of the first book and then
things got a little crazy the publicity
stuff and listening stuff and then
writing late at night also working on
the next one dialing that in and then
you're editing one while you're writing
another book a year type program that's
what you're that's what you're doing and
maybe I'll get past that at some point
I'll have us end date and then I'll
start the next one but right now it's
not not quite like that yet so my
mornings were taken up with getting up
early and not anymore I need to get back
after it but in Park City where we live
there's some crazy in shape people out
there yeah I happen to know a couple of
them so as soon as we moved out there
after the Navy they're like hey come
come we gotta go work out it's 5:30 in
the morning and I know Jacques has been
up for two hours already but for me
that's pretty good Joe waking up at 5:00
getting down there and doing these crazy
trail runs CrossFit stuff
in the pool do all sorts of crazy stuff
that these guys put together and it's
like five or six CrossFit workouts
meshed into one with trail running with
the endurance side and yeah what group
are you in with that's doing this is it
a local gym or yeah we go we meet at the
local gym but Hobie darling was the CEO
of Skullcandy he's like all into human
performance at all levels emotional
physical mental spiritual like being the
best like human he can possibly be yeah
you love them like and those guys are
all out there they're all out there yeah
yeah and Eric Schneider is another
another guy big his defender 110 is used
in some of my videos he's a big defender
guy but those guys are animals they are
animals and get up with them work out
get home get the kids to school so I had
a schedule like that for a little bit
but then it all became hey when you're
working till 4:00 in the morning and
getting up an hour and a half later
that's a little much yeah yeah yeah
that's that's always been a problem with
comedy because you have to go late
you're the you're testing stuff out and
then you're home and maybe I do get home
and then you're right it's home
yeah but then after you after you test
it out something at the comedy club you
come home and make those notes yeah well
luckily now the weight now we can't do
shit but when this crisis the Cova thing
wasn't going on what I would do is I
would record my sets on my iPhone and
then on the way home I would listen to
this set and then when I got home either
I would listen to it more I would write
you know sometimes I'd listen to it more
and then take notes and then write and
try to adjust or just write on
completely different subjects okay but I
just got to a schedule where the best
writing I was doing was when no one was
home because I'd be writing and then out
here daddy or my wife would want to know
something or you know someone else would
need something or phones or drink it two
o'clock in the morning no one's calling
you exactly it's free you're you're free
and then it's just quiet yes and also
it's creepy something about the darkness
is Creole icky of the the your thoughts
are weirder yeah baby it was a real hard
time to get up and do like I would do
like 10:00 a.m. to get to class and when
you're up at 4:00 and you crash and then
try to get up six hours later or not
even five hours later and then get to
the gym a little bit of food in your
stomach yeah it was too hard oh yeah
you just listen to yours or you video I
just listened but video is better I
really need like Damon Wayans who's a
hilarious comedian has a collection of
every set that he's ever done since the
90s really yeah he films everything he
brings a tripod and a fucking camera and
he sets it up in the back of the room in
films every set he does and then he
edits it all himself on his computer I'm
like no way
that's nice level that is man do you
ever look at is there like for people
who aren't Amazon you can leave reviews
of books are there like for comedy club
or there of reviews of comics that go in
there that's good you don't know ya
can't okay it's it's all that scale
right when you get to a certain number
contacting you look down I'm at a place
where I just I can't now it's like 9
million something Instagram followers or
whatever the fuck it is it's like you
can't you just post in your that yes and
it's not good for you it's not good for
you positive or negative like just you
should know what you're doing get out of
it yes sir for me I feel like I need to
thank everybody at this point cuz I'm so
fortunate that the books are resonating
with people and really this whole
thing's been at grassroots like it made
this third book made the New York Times
list and it made it without like a
national news appearance with any of
these other bigger things it was all
great was hunters
it was tactical shooting people it was
readers that took a risk on a new author
and then told a friend and then that
person took a risk and told another
friend that's also it's crazy and then
these companies like black rifle coffee
like those guys like you know veteran
owned businesses or you know like Dudley
like those guys that post it and II
stomp like all those guys that held it
up and said oh I love this but it's
still grassroots yeah it's just like
instead of around the water cooler at
work it's modern yeah that's social I
feel like I need to get on and say thank
you so much I've really pretty because I
do I feel so fortunate and I really want
to thank everyone but I think I'm about
at that stage do it any more I do a
blanket thank you yeah I don't think
that I'm not thankful that's not the
case it's just for my own sanity
oh yeah and I've seen people that do get
really too into the comments and they
lose their fucking mind it's not healthy
oh yeah you can't do it I don't respond
to anything negative if anything's like
a little weird I do the block I'm sorry
very and I treat it like if I owned a
general store in small-town USA and I'm
behind the counter I own the place
somebody walks into they ask for
directions
some drunk comes in screaming the N word
those people different yeah so so the
guy who wants directions and doesn't
want to buy anything I mean you're like
you treat the hated here's the huge I
get back the inter station so much right
he has a good impression that he's there
someone comes in was to buy a candy bar
a six-pack or whatever you know you join
him in the right direction any
conversation so I treat it kind of like
that like I treat people on social media
the same way I would if I was
interacting with them the way we are
right here but just across the table at
my my business local general store yeah
I try to treat it like that but I'm
about at that point where there's too
many people coming into the store
everybody yeah but but I still I'm so
sincerely thankful for everyone that
took a risk on me starting this out yeah
well I can I can relate I understand
where you're coming from and I I used to
interact with people all the time online
too but then it got to the point where I
was like I see too many of my friends
like getting mad about things or
engaging back and forth and having these
Twitter wars with people then I realized
like the worst way to communicate ever
yeah you can't you know it's just not a
good it's it's also not it's just not a
good effective way to express yourself
with another human being if there's any
sort of a dispute or disagreement about
things like the best way to express
yourself is in person yeah and I know
you can't do that with everybody but
it's just it's not you you only have so
much time in the day it's not that it's
not a smart way to value your time oh
yeah yeah it's that bandwidth so I never
worried about how hard it was to get out
like I didn't worry about how hard it
was to get into the SEAL Teams or get to
get to buds all I knew that it was very
hard and that for me that was enough so
it can be done but people have done it
before yeah and so even growing up even
mid 80s I'm still doing like what today
people would call CrossFit so I get on
home school I'd run the hill by the
house I'd go under the basketball hoop
and then pull myself through you know
these kind of pull up things you know we
had a jungle gym in the backyard so I do
some regular pull-ups there changed my
grip
but it should put a rope up in the
backyard so I was doing that had my bow
out so I just shoot for the heart heart
heart rate and everything so I was doing
all those things and then I was reading
like sand in the art of archery
and I was reading the nonfiction stuff
on warfare and I was reading these those
authors I talked about earlier that I
John run writing in today so I was doing
all that stuff and I wasn't focused on
how hard it was oh maybe I'm not gonna
make it am I good enough my poll I'm
gonna get myself as good as I possibly
can by doing all the things that I think
I need to do and now you can type in
like Navy SEAL workout program and you
there's so many hard to pick which one
back then there was nothing you know so
I'm like well I see I see I'm running in
the sand I've seen a couple pictures
like that I see these guys in Vietnam
with these guns and I'm like okay I've
seen a couple movies okay what are you
gonna do okay you gonna climb this tree
you're gonna do this rope stuff do these
hill sprints so I just did that and did
you have like a program that you wrote
out or just nope wing it nope just as
many you can work out - yeah which is
very similar to actually when I got to
the SEAL Teams where it was pre CrossFit
days and all that so you ran as far as
you could as fast as you could in sand
and then you came back and you lifted as
heavy weights as you possibly could like
that like Arnold Schwarzenegger
you know 1980 encyclopedia of
bodybuilding if that was the workout up
until probably early 2000s so early
2000s what changed CrossFit came on the
scene that was huge we adapted or
adopted it fairly quickly because it
seems great until things go wrong seems
great until your joints start going or
your back starts going yeah if I
CrossFit I just kind of mean functional
fitness in general I mean the actual
actual program but but first yeah the
program's came out and people would get
on and say look look at this things this
is new give it a shot with me it took a
little bit of time but some guys jumped
right on and and but really what it
showed us and then right about that time
also more kicks off and and all that and
we realized okay you're at 10,000 feet
in these mountains you have a rock on
your radio guy you have an automatic
weapon guy that has a ton of ammo then
you're going you're hitting this
compound and you're putting these
ladders up and you're going through
these windows and sometimes throw these
spaces you have to get into to clear
where people are hiding or they're
hiding weapons so encyclopedia
bodybuilding and running as far as you
could as fast as you could in sand and
that being all you did there probably
better way so we're kind of forced into
it essentially did they do any work
where they're monitoring heart rate and
checking recovery and you know and
trying to keep you at a certain heart
rate while you're working
no they might now so I'm a little dated
so I got out summer of 2016 and I know
they were trying to modernize a lot of
things as I was leaving for those last
couple years but so it's possible they
do now one things that they did to that
incorporated a little technology was
inhale week like when I went through
with with handi they just pull you out
of the surf and then they walk down the
line I shined a flashlight in your eyes
and they'd say okay this guy's on the
verge of hypothermia he's about to die
pull him out
but then you have someone that looks
totally fine and then that person would
just collapsed as soon as like the
doctor walked by so what they had people
do is start to take these little RFID
chips and swallow them and so they'd
walk down that line and they'd hit you
with like the zapper from Walmart and
they'd get your core body temperature so
it lasted curves out like two days until
you passed it but for those first couple
days that's how they did it so you have
an RFID chip in your stomach and then
you shit it out after two days yeah and
so that's how they could tell with your
temperature yep I don't know when they
started doing that they did certainly
didn't do it in 97 when when I went
that's what they're gonna do with this
fucking covet virus Shea baby they're
gonna make you swallow an RFID chip in
your put it under your skin I'm really
worried about this tracking thing that
they're trying to implement that they're
talking about how South Korea is doing
that they're giving up a little bit of
personal liberty and freedom and I'm
like you can kiss my ass they're giving
up a little bit of privacy yeah like no
no I'd rather wash my hands and stay
home fuck off oh yeah they're not gonna
give that back something thank you I
don't know how many times they've
actually given non-0
yeah there's no way once they have that
kind of surveillance where they can
monitor you they're tracking you okay so
you can track everywhere you go and
measure you versus all the other people
that they know are infected did you come
in contact with them this guy's got a
recent test you don't like you need to
get a recent test now you're registered
okay now we're tracking you and
everywhere you go you're gonna be
tracked you're telling you when they
come up with a vaccine they're gonna
just drop that track and go hey go back
to being completely free go back no
chance no once they take those freedoms
like you never laws were never Russians
say never rarely taken off the books
right every year we have people on
talking about bills that they're
sponsoring well are they getting rid of
another one but add that one or you
static like there's a book called the
three felonies a day and it talks about
how a guy wakes up and
gets up in the morning goes to work
comes home has dinner puts the kids to
bed and unbeknownst to him during that
day he has committed three felonies
because there are so many laws on the
books you can't even keep track the
American Bar Association can't even tell
you how many laws are on the books state
local federal international ones that
play in all sorts of different
ordinances laws and you're breaking at
least three of them a day to commit a
felony it's a fascinating book and that
they're not gonna give those back
they're not gonna give those freedoms
back I've read a really disturbing thing
today and I'm not even sure if it's true
so which we should find out right now
Katie could you click did the CDC stop
tracking flu deaths for this year
because this is what I read and might
have been some wacko right wing website
that I was on you never know but I was
like this can't be true because the real
concern is that the CDC tracks flu and
they find out that flu is lower or the
same as kovat and why we making a big
deal out of kovat and then you know
people ride in the streets that's why
people can't it's hard to tell who to
trust
as you see yeah to politicians and you
see you don't trust either side and you
see everyone trying to make a power grab
and use this as a way to make power or
hurt an opponent or whatever it is and
even with yes DC DC you don't know there
will health organization you obviously
can't tell there you can't trust
information coming out of other
countries so people at home are just
like what await what do I do
safest thing to do is just to stay where
I am yeah but you don't know who to
trust it's so very hard it's very hard
to figure out who trust in doctors are
giving disparity on their website I'm
seeing information updated as of last
week April 18th for flu deaths for like
it's on the CDC weekly flu surveillance
and I mean it's all of the flu
information not good so how many people
have died this year from the flu I have
to take three here to find that
information on a second because the Cova
deaths or what is it now 55,000 I think
my father this country yeah I think it's
more right maybe 60,000 now closing in
on that yeah which is not a small number
it's a lot of people but then you find
out that that that's a bad year for the
flu that's normal but obviously this
year we've locked everybody down
worldwide even and you know there's just
there
has to be a slower spread because of
this quarantine eing and because the
social distancing so your I would
imagine you're getting far lower numbers
than they would have gotten if everybody
had just gone out into the streets oh
yeah yeah no doubt about that but no
doubt for for a flu and this is my
understanding because in that fourth
novel that I'm writing right now is deep
into the study of infectious diseases
perfect perfect times crazy and then how
you weaponize those infectious diseases
what the Japanese did prior to World War
two in that space how they use them in
World War two against the Chinese what
happened to that data afterward after
the war the Soviet program from the end
of World War two up to the collapse what
happened to that information and then
our programs today from the end of World
War two up to and continuing through
today so I was I was keyed in to all
that ahead of time and so it made me a
little kind of hypersensitive to me as
I've been talking to doctors people that
had worked in that space doing my
research but from obviously I'm not a
doctor but from what I've studied the
difference here is that the incubation
period so for us so in the military go
overseas and how we're fighting
insurgents and what do they look like
well they look like the people that
aren't insurgents what does that car
look like that's pulling up to this this
checkpoint it looks like the one that
didn't have a vbid in it or is that one
looking a little low on the suspension
so they're not in a uniform they're not
driving a military-type vehicle so same
with this it's like an insurgent that's
adapted it's adapted to those other
diseases and how we fought them and it's
adapted by the incubation period by that
nine days so a flu you get the flu
you're down you know you shouldn't go
into work if you show up at work
someone's like bro go home you look like
you look horrible get out of here I'm
gonna infect everybody you don't know
that with row 19 so you go out there for
this nine days whatever it is and you're
infecting people during that timeframe
so it's like that insurgent that hides
and once the punks the populace it's the
same type of thing like if adapted SARS
was different flu is different all these
other ones have been different and
that's the adaptation of this one is
that you go out and you infect other
people without knowing it so that's the
difference between it and the flu so
it's a hard thing to wrap your head
around we just look at numbers but it
but there is a difference in that
flue you're staying home you're sick you
know it's it's really in a lot of ways
it's a perfect way to spread a virus
because there's a there's a video game
that my wife plays she used to play
doesn't play anymore now that this is
going down but it was a virus video game
really you send a virus throughout the
world and the the key is if you make
your virus too strong it's a video game
you play on your iPad or your phone if
you make the virus too strong it kills
people too quickly and then it doesn't
spread so the way you get a virus
everywhere is you have one that sits in
your system for a little bit and it's
just weak in the beginning and slowly
spreads its way across the world and
that's essentially what this is in a lot
of ways but this is this one's so weird
man I mean the Newsweek actually had a
story yesterday saying that they think
it came from a lab so now that that
theory of whether or not it came from a
laboratory I think I tweeted it I think
I tweeted it so you can find it on my
Twitter page where I was reading it
yesterday okay
Newsweek not really sensationalistic
publication right when they're
publishing something like that you gotta
go hmm probably something to this and
there's a lot of speculation I mean it's
not so hard to imagine I mean you're
talking about something that literally
was a few blocks from the epicenter in
Wuhan where they had that level 4 lab
right so the deal is with like the video
game your wife was playing and that the
goal of that game it sounds like was to
infect the world to kill the world but
if that's not your if you have a goal
and you want your country to survive
then you don't want it to become to hit
the city the country whatever geographic
area you want to hit with a weaponized
infectious disease you want it to burn
out in that city so instead of going
over and dropping bombs on it like like
world war ii like fire bombing Dresden
or whatever else or Tokyo and just
destroying those cities well you know
what after the war you can go in with an
infectious disease and you know it's
burnt out and there's no damage yeah but
you don't want it to spread throughout
the whole world and come back to your
own country so when I first looked at
this and I heard about Wuhan I heard
that there was a let's say not a weapons
lab maybe but maybe it's a weapons lab
but at least a lab doing research in
infectious diseases a couple miles from
these wet markets where they're saying
that this thing broke out there are
cases in the former Soviet Union of them
doing these this research into
infectious diseases and weaponizing it
and then having it get out because the
protocols weren't followed or whatever
else and kills a few people and they
hush-hush it because it's a nineteen
sixty something or nineteen seventy
something so there is precedent and it
wouldn't be beyond the beyond the pale
to think that someone was doing some
sort of research and it doesn't have to
be weaponization it can just be there
just studying this infectious disease
not even weaponizing it and someone
contracts it somehow in that lab and
then brings it outside yeah that's the
controversial theory so here's the thing
the controversial experiments in wuhan
lab suspected of starting the corona
virus pandemic and says the case against
a wuhan lab and so it says why the wuhan
lab remains a suspect in the corona
virus investigation I mean it's really
likely that we never really will know
right but they most certainly were
working on viruses similar to this one
right there the end of this article says
there's another one called our ATG 13
which is very very similar to the SARS
covert to one that we're experiencing
now Oh terrific they share 96% of the
same genetic yeah Wow it's thought to be
the most similar to this SARS Cova to of
any known virus the two share 96% of
their genetic material that 4% gap would
still be a formidable gap for animal
passage research says Ralph barek
virologist University North Carolina
probably in bed with the Russians who
collaborated with like when you found
out that a Harvard guy got arrested that
uh because he was taking money from
Russia or excuse me taking money from
China because he was doing something
with them yeah I mean it's real spooky
what's really spooky is the World Health
Organization is essentially in bed with
with China yeah and they're not giving
us a hundred percent clear detailed
information everything gets filtered
down through the Chinese propaganda
system
oh sure very dangerous and they also
were exceedingly know in the numbers
right and we can't trust China but it
seems like they were a little more
prepared for this than we were with far
as testing gas goes and all
so if you're doing research there's a
lab where you're doing research similar
to this close by there there's a history
of other countries maybe even China too
of doing research into infectious
diseases not following protocols that we
would hear in the United States or not
all as safe as they are shocker
here in the United States what we're
doing the same type of research then it
gets out and then they just happen to
have a lot of these kits ready to go for
testing I don't know yeah well in 2018
they were actually cited for violating
safety protocols at that same lab in
2018 so they were there were there was
concerns about that area long before but
what's really fucked up is the World
Health Organization posted in January
that according to China there is no
evidence of person-to-person
transmission of this disease this is
days after they knew for sure it was
being transmitted from person to person
so China has been deceptive about this
from the very beginning and they think
that if they were honest about it and
that they they stopped everybody from
leaving it could have covered they could
have covered this in the point where it
would have been 95 percent less I saw
that yeah
95 percent less people would have gotten
in fact just locked down on to deal with
it there as much as you can anyway let
the rest of the world know I mean
looking back that seems like but you're
dealing with China seems the worst it
seems like the worst it does seem that
way it's a perfect storm it seems like
but the way they handled their own
citizens when their citizens are testing
positive there's this horrible video
this family being dragged out by these
people in hazmat suits and they're
trying to resist these people are
dragging them away because they tested
positive oh yeah once again that
government taking a little more control
control and we're just giving it up and
we give up so much and even before this
obviously we gave up so much information
about ourselves voluntarily we would
let's say in the 50s 60s 70s 80s we
never would have given up and now we're
like Oh click accept and now BAM yeah
awesome I can post a picture or whatever
it is you know this is fun I can
communicate with my friends we're very
accustomed to clicking on those user
agreements no one can figure them out
those those those concern me and
obviously we've given up a lot of our
information in terms of data where we go
the map information that kind of shit
but this tracking thing really freaks me
the fuck
it really does because they're gonna
find another reason why they should be
able to track you once once they do it
because of the virus and then it'll just
be next year it'll be the flu you know
they'll find reasons to keep fucking
tracking you would be safe you like have
you got not doing anything wrong what
are you worried about listen as soon as
someone says that yeah it's yeah you're
a fool yeah antennas got to go up I
don't understand you don't understand
what this could mean look the fucking
mayor of Los Angeles was paying people
to rat people out for not finding social
distance not following social social
distancing rules oh yeah there was an
article in the fuckin news newspaper
were saying that normally snitches get
shot I saw that video it's horrible do
you know crazy it's just like like so
for this third novel I went to Russia to
do some research and I'd always wanted
to go there I knew that for this third
one the first one should go before after
August you've written about Russia in
your books I was in the process of
writing it I was getting kind of closer
to the end but I finished up edits gosh
I wanna say giant this January so I've
only read savage Sun is that I didn't
read it and listen to it people get mad
you say I guess but so savage Sun is the
only one I've listened to did you talk
about Russia and the other books in the
second one I did it plays in and the
geopolitics side so the first one is
really very I wanted it to be very basic
for visceral very primal right out of
the gate because I knew that in New York
Simon & Schuster all these big
publishing houses they see thousands of
these things a year so somebody needs to
make this stand out and a lot of that
was the the personal experience from
Iraq and Afghanistan morphed into the
novel to make it feel real personal and
visceral so were to come out swing in
with that novel of revenge without
constraint so I'd I'd done that research
essentially just as part of my life by
going to Iraq going to Afghanistan all
those sorts of things for the second one
I knew it had to be different so I put
in a lot of more that geopolitics of
what's going on with Russia power
struggles all this other to make it a
little different side and when people
saying oh he's just a one-trick pony he
just picked up this revenge thing now he
drops it in Africa drops it and in China
drops it in Europe
that's what had to be different had to
continue that hero's journey in this
story of violent Redemption
but I went to Mozambique as part of it
to do that research because I knew this
is before I even had a publishing deal
I knew that hey John Grisham he wrote a
time to kill first and he couldn't give
that book away and then he wrote the
firm and that's the one that takes off
with the movie with Tom Cruise then
later then they go back and they publish
a time to kill Matthew McConaughey makes
the movie but if he'd stopped at a time
to kill he probably still be practicing
law somewhere in Memphis so I knew I was
always gonna write to so off I went to
Mozambique to do that research get that
boots on the ground experience like I
had in Iraq had in Afghanistan already
for the first novel I had by living in
San Diego knowing la knowing New York
and really being able to incorporate
what I'd done already but I hadn't been
in Mozambique had to go there so put
boots on the ground and everybody over
there wanted to tell me the story of
their country wanted to talk about the
politics wanted to talk about Chinese
influence in the region with mining
operations both legal and illegal and
the meat poaching that goes along to
feed all the people in those mines how
that's affecting the environment so they
just couldn't stop them from talking it
was great and then for this third one I
thought it would be the same in Russia
so I wanted to go to come check up and
insula and do a hunt do a little fishing
over there at the same time but it's all
part of the research and you can for one
month a year you can get to come shaaka
peninsula from alaska so you don't have
to go from here to Germany or London
don't mind some for all of August so you
get in one flight a day under shower one
flight a week only in August only in
August otherwise you have to go all the
way around the world so it's better to
fly to Anchorage then hop on a couple
hour flight and next thing you know
you're in Russia it's awesome but I
thought it was gonna be the same I
thought you know land I'll get to this
remote backcountry place where we have
these guides and all that and I'll be
able to really and it's on the military
installation because of the people
guiding us I used to have some
connection to the government so he has
this hunting concession out there in the
backcountry and I thought they'd all
want to talk to me and then I realized
very quickly that for most of Russian
history if someone is asking you pointed
questions that kind of you to ask if
you're writing a political thriller you
were not long for this world it was a
firing squad gulag off to siberia
whatever so they were very hesitant to
talk to me and I left on my computers
behind soon as I walked through customs
I knew that I was gonna get everything
sucked out of my phone and computer well
I know who who sent things to me an
email or text over the last 20 plus
years
that yeah so I just left all that behind
brought a pen and paper but I was asking
these questions and I you know I thought
ho they couldn't here's my book you know
they're gonna know I'm an author I'm
just asking but no they were very
standoffish and very suspicious of why I
was asking these kind of questions but
it all worked out I got some great stuff
and got to weave that into the two the
third one what kind of huntin did you in
Russia so brown bear oh wow it was crazy
what did brown bear taste like I tell
you that I don't know because usually I
follow not usually well yeah usually I
follow the customs of the local people
because I don't want to like show up and
me kind of the ugly America and show
well I'm better than you you don't write
you know you don't eat this but I will
this is what we do so I kind of adopt
what the locals do and they don't eat
the bear interesting I wonder why yeah I
don't know it's just one of those things
that they don't well a lot of times
people I mean it marries amazed I had
the best bear this year a black bear
Brian call gave me some okay Oh
incredible it was delicious it was so
good I tell that's people and like shut
the fuck up like my daughter got asked
what's your favorite food she goes bear
yeah and her friends like what amazing
yeah like it's probably not really her
favorite food I think she's probably
trying to shock her friends I don't know
that black bear that that Brian gave me
is I mean it was canned so it was just
sitting there for a while yeah so this
canned thing so how did he make it you
know so what do you boil it and it's in
the yeah how are you Wayne Endicott from
the bow rack up in Springfield Oregon
gave me some canned deer meat and it was
really good yeah but it's really bottled
it's like bottled deer interesting and
bottled dad had bottled deer before but
I'll tell you bottled black bear and if
this maybe it was eating no blueberries
or whatever but it was and it sat on our
counter for six months because my wife
was like total archery challenge and yet
Kim for the house we did a wild game
dinner Trevor Thompson came over and so
we open it up and it was everyone's
favorite I wish we had more of it what
were the ingredients behind besides just
used to put a couple some spices in
there of some sort but I don't know it
didn't look like it you just open it up
and look
then you open it up a little can like
glass like you would a bottle yeah like
you went with a jam yeah same as the
deer that I had it seems like one of
those vacuum-sealed bottles it was
awesome I wanna go down there get some
more from him if he has any more if he's
listening I'm gonna come down and get
some of that because I was legit yeah my
wife loved it she's like wow this Andy
as soon as you opened it up and it hit
the air it changed like it changed it
didn't look like a smirky thing that was
in the jar like it looked beautiful
amazing we loved it it was great a
breeze favorite it's awesome yeah that's
a weird thing like bear actually tastes
good people are so wrapped up in bears
because of teddy bears they they have
this distorted perception of what a bear
is and people that have no problem
eating cows have get mad at you if you
eat a bear do you know how much nicer a
cow is than a fucking bear no cows don't
eat their young I don't think they eat
their children though bill they kill
other people's children and then the
mutt while other bears children rather
and then the month look when I was in
Alberta my friend John and Jen the
people who run the camp out there the
rivets their son saw a male bear kill a
cub and then the female bear chased the
male bear away and then finished eating
her cub its amazed he was eating her cub
so she she ate her own cub right after
she was defending it it becomes meat
once they're dead yeah they're all
cannibals it's crazy a lot of that stuff
is interesting how people have will
associate bears with well in humans I
mean they do look when you skin them
they do look a little like humans ward
off that someone looks like a fucking
bear when they're dead like you've done
something awful with your body that's a
big boy yourself but Steve Rinella calls
it best he says that they're charismatic
megafauna yeah and there's oh yeah
there's something else that we have in
our head that you're not supposed to eat
and we also I think we connect bears to
what you would call trophy hunting
meaning like someone who hunts lions
something is someone who hunts things
you don't
although mountain lion apparently is
very good it's delicious
I've heard this I've had friends it's
like their favorite food yeah yeah don't
events it was saying I've heard him here
he's talking about was the best thing
he's ever ever eaten yes yeah and I did
my first one this year
and it was amazing I don't mind I didn't
eat it cuz the guide didn't really was
like it was like a no-go same thing yeah
the guy wouldn't let you eat it it was
very clear to me that that was not
something that was done there you know I
shouldn't I should have pushed it in
Utah so I Prai should have pushed it I
could have well yeah you should I feel
bad about it now
it's hard to get a tag for them too so
it's not like it's easy to get it
Wednesday it was wild yeah that was
amazing but the back back to that that
the bear experience was incredible
especially with someone who doesn't
speak English like her over there with
this guy who's uh that's really he was
part of well in the military and then
worked for the government and then is
now people just listening you doing air
quotes yeah so I really interstate but
yeah got my bear and then but the
craziest part was my friend who got his
and he wounded it first by accident of
course and that happens like we know and
it goes off into this thick thick brush
in the states because I went and did
another hunt in Alaska this year like
they won't let you go in after I wounded
bear into the thick stuff like maybe
some well but my from what I've gleaned
they're gonna go in and do kind of like
going in after a wounded lover or
something in in Africa like good guides
that's where the guys are gonna go earn
it I'm going do that so this thing's
wounded and they hand me this rusty
side-by-side shotgun that's at the
bottom of this boat that we're in this
little tiny little boat that we're in on
this river and the guy hands it to me
and then hands me two shells I'm looking
at this right thing and I'm having these
two shells in my hand I'm like okay and
I'm like no cuz yeah II had so a couple
more Michael give me some more and I
trained up for Africa do it the double
rifle I went to FTW ranch in Texas to
get really good with a double rifle
because I wanted to do a cape buffalo
hunt the same way someone would have
done it a hundred years ago so no optic
side by you know double rifle so it's a
rifle but it looks like a shotgun hmm so
there's two rounds two shots but you
have two other ones ready to go and so
you practice that FTW practice and they
have charging animals that are coming in
after you and you're just like you would
in the military changing bags but this
time you're getting two more in there
and getting it back up so well I trained
hard for that and so when he handed me
this old rusty shotgun
and I think someone said oh that was
made in an ake a factory I was like okay
I feel better about this because I've
seen a lot of aks and I've seen a lot of
them rusty and working so I'm like okay
I'm gonna have trust my about to trust
my life to this thing and it's rusty
it's from a bottom of a boat and this
guy doesn't even speak English so BAM
here we go for so and I look at him just
to make sure it's not like buckshot or
something so I can see this load it's a
slug it feels like the double rifle I
trained up so hard with to go to Africa
which was an amazing experience getting
written now and better but and off we go
in to the brush so it's like they
wouldn't let you do this in in the
States like you're going into this thing
and it will wounded a huge bear brown
bear and off you gone it's just me the
guy to my friend and this thing it's all
quiet and I haven't felt this dialed in
since romrio six like I was on and then
BAM this thing rears up like Oh 15 yards
away just like humans and I just span
and boom shot him like I would a person
just how big was he ended up being over
ten feet yeah I'll show you a picture
after this ten foot tall bears more than
the size of the head and I forget how
huge anyways I'll show you a picture
after this so yeah I shot like it was a
human that it goes it goes running off
like I don't know 20 yards or something
like that into some more thick stuff and
then we hear a death Bell oh but before
we heard the death bellow the guide in
broken English was like I'm gonna go
around the other side and I'm gonna
scare him towards you and I'm like oh
okay so I do I go around to the other
side and I get down I'm like well if it
charges out it's probably gonna be on at
all legs and it's gonna come charging
like this so I knelt down and then just
got ready to to put one in if it's
coming charging at me I'm trying to
figure out okay face mouth right here he
knows my first bear hunt so anyway it
heard the death bellow after that damn
it was it was huge
it was crazy that is such a different
kind of hunting when you're hunting
something that absolutely could tear you
apart
oh yeah like you're made out of tissue
paper oh yeah yeah no doubt I'll show
you the pay it's crazy but what it would
surprise me was how much it wasn't like
Wild West over there we said oh can I
can we get one nut get another bear it
was very like
no you had your tag just like you would
in the States it was all science-based
we need to take this many out for the
population like it was just like the
states which is a big business and
people coming over there they don't want
to deplete the resources right yeah
they're smart but for some reason that
surprised me I thought oh it's Russia
cuz I've been to Russia before I've been
to Moscow been to Ukraine dive into the
catacombs for earlier in life and I wolf
those into into the second novel but I
just figured it would be kind of wild
Westy kind of hike I remembered it over
in Ukraine and Moscow back in the early
90s and but it wasn't it was all very
much
you have your tag no this is yours and
and we're not going to deviate from that
it's kind of interesting they wouldn't
even entertain eating it yeah yeah and
there's a language barrier there too so
it's hard especially when you're dealing
with people that are tough I mean
they're living in these huts built into
the ground
essentially transportation just south of
Siberia so come ChaCha's just south of
Siberia but essentially the same same
type of thing and so they're built these
into these small hills for insulation so
I mean they're out there Wow and it's
it's it's a rough existence so when they
say we're not doing something and they
say it in a way with this Russian accent
and there's really it's not really a
let's talk about it right it's not know
you would think that the most people
would want meat more than anybody you
know I mean you would think meat would
be very valuable in a 10-foot bear you
could feed so many goddamn people maybe
that's why they told us we couldn't cuz
they're keeping it I would definitely
not yeah at least that's possible yeah
but they've done a fish out there moose
huge moose out there northern pike right
yeah but well they have they might but
we were after Dolly Varden and rainbow
trout brown trout Oh some big ones out
there so it was pretty crazy was a good
trip and I got to weave that all that
stuff in so I got so weave in some of
the people that I met over there the
snowmobiles they have over there have
one skate in the front instead of the
two yeah so they're going through this
taiga this tundra so it's tightly as a
so they're only watching one getting my
route or something like that instead of
the two so I got a lot of good stuff by
going over there and I wouldn't have
known what to ask I want to see the
vehicles that they used over there it
was very happy to see some Land Cruisers
so that was pretty yeah but they had a
whole bunch of other stuff too some
Russian some crazy Russian stuff and I
got to incorporate incorporate those
vehicles into the novel as well so you
really never know what you're gonna get
until you get on the ground and talk to
people build those relationships and
then things ended up end up waking
making their way into the stories have
you ever seen that Werner Herzog
documentary happy people life in the
taiga no need to see that you need to
see it I've seen it before I'm a book
it's crazy it's really good it's and
it's this amazing documentary about
these people that live in the taiga in
Russia and it shows them from being in
the summertime all the way through into
being in the wintertime and it just
there are just hunters and gatherers and
they're so happy it's really weird it's
really where like there's no mental
illness there's no suicide and
everyone's just struggling I mean
they're just ever there they're making
their own skis they're making their own
homes they're making their own I mean
they have these cabins set up for
trapping and they use snowmobiles and
then they have dogs they have a very
tight relationship with their dogs and
they get fish and they get meat and then
that is that was what the and they bring
bread with them and the breads all
frozen obviously so they have these
loaves of bread they bring they store
their cabins they have to bear proof
everything but it's just their life is
so compatible with being a human being
it's like there's something about our
human reward systems that have evolved
over thousands and thousands of years
that being a hunter-gatherer just
completely locks in with all the things
that keep you content and happy there's
the documentary right awesome yeah very
interesting the relationships with their
dogs dogs over there were amazing
everything their dogs are everything
they have a huge very very tight
relationship with their dogs that's
incredibly have the dogs that we had in
the camp they protected the camp from
the Bears like that was the bear
protection was these dogs that were
specifically trained up to chase bears
off yeah I think I called Alec he'd have
to go back and look but absolutely
incredible dogs they were amazing it's a
really amazing documentary absolutely
whatever yeah there's another really
interesting documentary well not a
documentary it's a Vice guide to travel
where it's I think it's called hime I
think his name's hi mo hi Mo's Arctic
venture and it's a guy who got a job in
Alaska in like the 1970s and he owns the
he has like a lease to have a cabin out
there in this very remote part of the
Arctic yeah and and once he's dead like
this is it like no one else can go back
to the government yeah I don't think
anybody else is gonna be allowed but
it's it's another amazing documentary
and he's a guy who's a really he's an
American guy who's really articulate
very interesting guy very intelligent
guy who loves living like this and
raised his family out there and is his
wife is American Eskimo and is this a
fucking amazing way of life I don't want
to live I don't want to live like that I
mean I like cities all cars I like all
that stuff but there's something
incredibly compelling about being
completely reliant on nature and your
own you know ingenuity and hard work and
he was talking about it in this
documentary where the the Vice people
this is back when vice was you know just
starting out to this vice guide to
travel so one of their earlier series
that they were doing on on YouTube it's
it's really cool when you're seeing this
guy who's this reporter who has no
experience like this at all in to
interacting with this guy and him
explaining his life and why he lives
like this and why it's so important to
him and yeah I think maybe that's why
people find their way back to nature in
some way shape or form like you want a
cabin somewhere or they they like going
to the mountains that go in a big sky
they like going to Park City that's the
dream for people yeah but it's still
nice to be able to you know drive in and
go to the grocery store nice to go to a
restaurant he's looking smart now
exactly I might not even know what's
going on but he doesn't even need to
right yeah yeah people I think also this
was a little bit of a wake-up call for
people as far as how soft we've gotten
generally as a people and I'll say from
the end of World War 2 for those guys
that came back and got back to work
didn't complain and built this country
into what it is today
but since then we've gotten a little
soft and they're like oh wait a second I
maybe it would have been better had I
had like a week of food or maybe I would
have had
you know maybe 20 to go do I have a gun
in the house and I all we do it's in
that safe and I haven't shot it in years
or was gave to my dad gave it to me
maybe I should learn how to maybe use it
in case the police aren't there for me
when I need him to where do we have fire
extinguishers in the house do we know
how to use them are those things expired
the kids know how to use them like all
those little types of questions once
again gets back to bandwidth so if
you're worried about that stuff you know
you're not worried about how do you
adapt your business how do you adapt
having your family at home and moving
forward here when maybe you don't have a
job anymore you need to get creative so
you're worried instead about oh how many
beans are in the cat but instead if you
had oh we have three and everybody's
experience is gonna be different what
they're comfortable with as far as their
levels of preparedness and it's not only
about being paranoid it's just allowing
you to focus elsewhere if there's a
natural disaster here in California like
an earthquake
you know other places you know tsunami
or whatever whatever it is hurricanes
whatever it allows you then to focus
where you need to be focused and some
people will be like three days of food
and maybe a little water and do I need
something to filter water with in case I
turn on the tap and there's nothing
comes out Brown so everybody's level is
gonna be different but I think this was
a wake-up call and I'm not super
confident that people going forward will
take those lessons and act on them
because that's what's important most
will slide right back into complacency
unfortunately I think that you're that
you're right yeah but it's funny Kim my
wife was like ah now I see why we have
all this stuff and you know it's not
crazy stuff but it's just like I like
being prepared about it's not just from
being a seal it's from before that it
had always been drawn to the outdoors
and wanting to be prepared and know how
to to live out there survive or whatever
else I've just been it's always been a
part of me so it was very natural for us
to have a couple guns I was some ammo
have some water have some food because
when this hit you know what I did book
was coming out and I had to figure out
how to adapt very quickly to the
changing environment and launch it in
some heat was very important to do it in
an appropriate way and do it as much
good as I could at the same time my
helping independent bookstores who have
no foot traffic that sort of thing but
very quickly I had to take that breath
look around and adapt and I didn't have
to worry about food or water or
filtration systems or ammo or we already
had that
so I guess but all my effort into
figuring out how to adapt to the
changing conditions did you get a lot of
questions from people like how do I get
a gun yes a lot of California people
some lines around the block in front of
gun stores were hilarious
they've didn't realize you can just walk
in they've heard about this loophole
wait how can I like where's that
loophole that they keep talking about
how do I just get one of these no I
can't even loan you one because if I
loan you won't you walk more than but 20
yards away or whatever now it's an
illegal transfer a real firearm yes oh
sorry I might have 300 of them but guess
he's not getting any you because you
didn't prepare and I don't want to be a
felon well there's also so many people
that were anti-gun that now want a gun I
mean it is hilarious it's it's really
interesting to see like this is where
well people are protected and when
society's want running great and we you
know up until this pandemic at least we
had a wonderful society I mean it's like
huh I mean there are problems with every
society there's it's certainly not
perfect and there's certainly a lot of
crime and certainly certainly there's
things wrong but however it is
absolutely the best time in history you
have to be a human being and to be alive
especially in this country it's so many
people like why would you need a gun no
one needs a gun the First Amendment's
bullshit when you take all the guns
now that the pandemic hits those same
people are like oh okay now I get it
there's not enough cops in the world to
deal with riots if there's mass riots in
the street and people are breaking into
people's houses and the world becomes
lawless because the economy has
absolutely collapsed and people that
were maybe like a little bit sketchy
just go on to become a full-on criminal
that is absolutely inside the realm of
possibility and we need to recognize
that and the people that were anti-gun
there is I mean a great percentage of
them now or saying to me like I either I
want a gun or I get it or how do I get a
gun or how do I train like I see those
videos of you training how do you train
with a gun where do you go how do you
how to just start and all these
questions what where do you hunt like
the the Google search is on hunting must
be through the roof I would think so I
would think so because if you're worried
about food like my friend went to the
grocery store right after the big thing
hit and everything was shut down he said
all I could find was one package of
ground beef yeah definitely
worried about ya you're not over here
man I got three commercials yeah I'll
hook you up
I'll give you I've been given a lot of
my friends meat I love doing it I like
there's all I ask
send me a picture of your food Alessi
want to see what looks like when you
cook it yeah I mean this isn't the first
time this is the first time that you've
been somewhere else and you've been able
to it's not LA riots and you're seeing
the Korean shopkeepers defending their
stores yeah it's not Katrina where
you're hearing a few things about the
police not maybe confiscating firearms
there but then not for not being able to
protect you right but you know if you
live in you know Montana or maybe you're
in upstate New York or whatever and
you're seeing that on the news and then
you go back to making your dinner and
have them whatever it's not real now
this one I think was real for more
people for everybody yeah cuz the whole
country's locked down even Montana which
has a very low number of deaths and a
very low number of infections still has
statewide social distancing rules the
mediator crew those guys are all doing
their podcast from their homes remotely
yes a different deal let's drove at home
it did it drove home the vulnerability
and I think this is a good dry run
because this is and I don't want to
disrespect anybody who's died or anybody
who's got sick but this is not the worst
pandemic the the world's ever
experienced it's not it's it's it's not
nearly as bad as like the 1918 Spanish
flu which killed 50 million people
worldwide so this is a smaller number
still bad smaller number but this is a
wake-up call that this kind of thing is
a real possibility and then take this
and then couple it with okay a terrorist
attack or take this and couple it with a
natural disaster now you have two things
going on now you have a pandemic and now
you have a huge earthquake here in
California fires you have a tsunami
whatever it is so you have have those
things or civil unrest somewhere yeah so
that's three things now choose one of
the shoes any of those or maybe someones
watching and this is a time because
we're weak and you get hit with a cyber
attack from somewhere now all of a
sudden you're at home and your credit
cards don't work how old this data has
been gathered over the last 10 15 years
on people credit card information I mean
they're building in China all these huge
fields of
collect data huge learn drives
essentially they collect data so now
you're at home and you want to order
from your Whole Foods delivers or
whatever oh not working credit let's try
this next one oh this one's not working
now what you do so right
there's also it can get worse it can get
a lot worse and but being prepared it's
just a little bit don't to get crazy but
it'd be nice to prepare to defend your
family for me as a husband father I feel
that's my responsibility as a citizen
that's my responsibility that's that's
one of my jobs is to be able to prepare
my family for their end and defend my
family if need be so my my family might
be maybe a little bit different but why
spend a Thunder ranch up in Oregon
training both pistols in a ours up there
our daughters been hunting since she's
seven you know she's very comfortable
with firearms but it's just natural and
I think it's just natural for us as
people to want to protect that the
greatest gift of life yeah not just ours
but those that we love as well so I
think it seemed like it was not inside
the real world of problems that most
people gonna have to deal with before
this and now that they've seen like oh
the the the actual structure of our
civilization is very thin the the veil
that keeps you from bad things happening
it's very small and it's just we lived
in this nice little Goldilocks zone
where nothing was happening where there
wasn't any pandemics there wasn't any
state like besides 9/11 there's no real
attacks on American soil other than that
one day so you look at the United States
over this long period of time you're
like wow this is like the most amazing
time ever to be alive and everything's
going so great this is just how it's
gonna be now forever and then something
like this happens and people realize
like oh and especially I feel terrible
for the people that work hard every day
and then their jobs taken away from them
it's no fault of their own they're not
lazy they're not drug addicts they're
not they didn't gamble it all away one
day they woke up and the world had
changed and now they don't have food
money it's tough it's talking hard and
it's yeah it's also one of the well it's
the other piece when we talk about being
prepared it's the one that often gets
overlooked when you're talking about
preparedness is that financial so yeah
so yeah and for everybody it's going to
be gonna be different is it
one month worth of bills is it too is it
three that's what the experts say or
whatever
everyone's gonna be different but it's
important I think going forward for
people to realize if they weren't
prepared financially for this that going
forward they need to start putting a
little bit away they need to talk to
somebody about how they best can yes
because things aren't always gonna be
roses you're gonna face adversity in
life and we're just like we're facing as
a country now like yeah you're gonna
face it in life as well it doesn't have
to be a pandemic you could just lose
your job or something could happen to a
family member whatever it may be it
doesn't need to be a pandemic or a
terrorist attack or anything these
global calamities it can just be you
losing your job getting sick or whatever
it may be so having that foundation of
financial security hopefully that's one
of those notes people are taking from
this going forward so they can be better
prepared not just friend of these
calamities we're talking about but just
for normal everyday life because yeah
you're gonna get hit you're gonna get
knocked down and you're gonna have to
get up and keep moving forward and you
know it's gonna help you with that it's
not wasting bandwidth on figuring out
where that now how you gonna pay that
next bill because you're prepared a
little bit I hope people also recognize
that if you're in a dead-end job and
you've been just playing it safe and
then it got taken away from you because
this pandemic and even though you played
it safe and you did is this terrible job
that sucks like you realize like maybe I
should have chased my dream you know
maybe there's a chance I mean like a guy
like you who takes but I want to get
back to this because we never really we
never really finished how the book up
you talked about how you wrote a bunch
of tangents yeah we did go on tangent
but that that your story is one of the
great American success stories I mean
that is the story the story is the guy
has a dream or the woman has a dream
whoever works hard and then one day
figures out a way to make it happen
that's it and that's what you did that's
it you didn't I didn't that whole thing
about just not worried about it not
happening I can always not happen it's
good to have contingency plans for Shore
I had I didn't have any specific
contingency plans but I I knew I was I
was gonna be okay but you know when you
sent it off I want to get to the I want
to get a lot of things I want to ask you
how you created reefs how you created
these characters but when you sent it
off like what does it feel like when
you've spent a year and what eight
months or something yeah
year at four months first and then
another four months to edit and then you
like alright and you send it off what is
that what is that feeling like it was
awesome it was awesome yeah Coronado
California I went to the UPS Store on on
the Main Street they're called Orange
Avenue and I wanted to get next day air
tracking you know everything insurance
whatever you could possibly do and show
you so it's all perfect and what I found
out from taking those notes in the car
when I was talking to Brad Thor I found
out how Emily Besler who is his editor
who's Vince Flynn's editor who did the
Mitch rap series who sadly passed away a
few years ago but you read a book called
term limits in the late 90s that really
defined the modern political thriller so
I knew the font that she liked
I knew the spacing that she liked and
also I made a space area like Ariel two
and a half it's in my old it's in my old
notes now it doesn't matter so much but
back then I wanted to make it I wanted
to do everything I possibly could to
increase my chances of success or making
her not just look at it and have
anything even who is just psychological
like oh it's in the wrong phone I don't
you specifically like juice up the
beginning chapter the first chapter just
to make it very riveting yes Rober
yepper absolutely yep you look because I
knew what I liked and what I liked
reading and I knew I liked sniper stuff
and I had that background and I could
weave all that in there and you know I
didn't just say he's walking in shoes
you know they're Salomon boots why
because that's what I use downrange or
you know eyes in sick of gear because
well flame buddy John heart started
sicker and also it would make him blend
in to that environment so he's not
dressed in military stuff in the
beginning so I needed to do all these
sorts of sorts of things were very
natural to do and and get him to a place
where the reader wants to turn the page
right how do I make the reader want to
turn to that next chapter and I want to
keep them up at night how do I make them
want to go through the entire night to
finish this thing did you spend the most
time on the first chapter because of
that nope I think was all pretty very
pretty much the same on every chapter I
would say when you go back to edits is
really where you spend
I'm dialing it in and gosh I'm trying to
member there weren't very many edits on
the first one from New York I thought
there was gonna be a ton but because
maybe it was because I had that yellow
sticky from listening to your show with
Steven Pressfield I had that thing that
said revenge I tied every single
paragraph chapter whatever had it
directly or more importantly indirectly
tie back to that theme to keep the
reader going same thing with the second
one had to directly or indirectly tie
back to Redemption somehow even if it
was very subtle what was the key on
savage Sun the dark side of man so it's
explore is the the hunter versus hunted
dynamic through the dark side of man so
really finding out a is James Reese the
protagonist is he a killer yeah is he a
soldier what what is he is you a hunter
or is he all three of these things so
exploring that because a lot of us are
drawn to these two these jobs were
defending our country defending the guy
right in left Homer downrange so why are
we doing that is it because of his
comfortable people have been doing this
from the beginning of time they've been
defending the tribe they've been picking
up the same type of weapons to provide
meals for that for that try they've been
passing down lessons on how to hunt and
how to defeat other tribes in battle to
ensure the success and the continuation
of their bloodline so why are we still
doing that today is it all for God and
country or is there something more and
so that's what I was really exploring
with with the other one but what the
third one but but yeah the important
thing is to get to the end of that
chapter and to have the person want to
turn the page and then look forward and
also to establish a relationship with
the character like I knew creating James
ruse I wanted to be a likeable guy like
I don't want people people don't want to
spend time with someone they don't like
that's like why would you do that so I
wanted people to invest in this
character to like him to want to sit
down have a beer with him but also he
needed to have that background the
training the experience to be able to
flip that switch when everything's taken
away and essentially become the
terrorist to become the insurgent that
he'd been fighting for the last at that
point sixteen years at war and used
those tactics techniques and procedures
that work so well against us from the
enemy side in Iraq and Afghanistan and
use those here on the homefront so it's
a little it's more than just a story of
revenge that first one it's really also
about someone who comes home
and brings the wars from Iraq and
Afghanistan home to people who have been
sending young men and women to their
deaths for close to 20 years now so it's
you can read it a couple of different
levels depend on how much do you want
how much how deep you want to go into it
now when you sent it to her how long did
it take before they respond almost
immediately really yeah it was so cool
so I sent it off I'm super excited I get
I totally remember because after I put
it after I mail that I'm industry
walking back to the landcruiser and this
crazy lady walks out into the street
from around the corner and this
nightgown and I'm like what's going on
and she's like there's a there's a dead
rat in my house can you help me I'm like
what and it was right there
like 50 feet away and I couldn't say no
so I remember this vividly that I sent
this off
Senta had my lifetime dream I get it in
the mail to emily Besler simon and
schuster and off it goes and i'm taking
that breath and i take a couple steps
towards the car and this lady runs
around the corner like you know and just
frantic look in her eye and I'm like
yeah I'll help you then so mine end of
this house and it was like this hoarder
house there was just stuff everywhere is
crazy so I had to go to this top level
this old like Victorian house and take
this dead rat and take it down did you
think you're gonna die in there imagine
if you send out it was but anyway I just
remember that distinctly because it was
so odd but yes I'll send it off and then
I didn't know what you don't know are
they gonna call you back are they not
are they gonna read one word of it and
just say or I have an opening at all who
knows but about to yes so I was about
two weeks when I say immediately I mean
like two weeks all right quick yeah
pretty quick I get a call from from Brad
Thor and Texas I'm gonna I just finish
this hunt and I flew over the side of
the road and he said hey you've been
struck by lightning and I was like what
he said yeah what year was this this is
why I mailed it in November of 2016 so I
got out of the military in July or June
2016 mailed it in November and then I
heard back at early December Wow yeah it
was crazy and yeah she said she loves it
and she wants to publish it and later I
found out that she called him because
he's their political thriller guy and
she's like hey
you know I got check cards manuscript
and I love it
but coming you're our you're our guy
what do you want me to do and he's like
I want you to publish Jack and that was
so cool so cool so he could have put the
kibosh on it a few maybe I don't know
maybe I don't know he's so great he's so
awesome and one thing he told me when we
first talked like I said he didn't he
said don't call me throughout this next
year when you're writing but what he did
say is that the only difference between
a published author and an unpublished
author is that the published author
never quit and so for me from buds and
having that bell right there that's
within sight of you during hell week we
put it in the in the trailer hitch of
these vehicles that follow you
everywhere so you don't even have to run
anywhere yourself like take a few steps
and ring this thing and you're done
so I really resonated with me because of
that love that so Mike alright I can I
can do this and and I always knew I
could anyway because I had that
background and had that foundation I
knew I was gonna do and I it was I was
so excited so anyway he told me that
that next couple weeks later I
mid-december I flew out of New York and
we sit down I think she wanted to make
sure that I wasn't a crazy person so
actually after you read your books
who the fuck is coming up with this shit
good point in that first one will tell
you that there's the first one there's
like in this third one if you've got to
the torture scene yet well there's
something similar read the whole book
and I went through the whole tortures
through the torture scene yeah so
there's that one and then the second one
there's another torture scene and then
in this other the first one there's one
that I got from The Shining Path
guerrilla movement in South America and
what they used to do is and they got it
from somewhere too but they'd
essentially eviscerate you while you're
alive and make you walk around a tree so
your intestines are now wrapped around
this tree and then the jungle eats you
alive yeah it's crazy so I was worried
that might be a little off-putting to
somebody in New York and publishing but
later I found out that that's like
everyone's favorite chapter from the
book especially people you wouldn't
expect like librarians and like it did
people absolutely love it but what I
guess in New York and I'm little like
now I'm like okay I've really made a
good impression so I'll bring a suit and
I've never had to do this before so I
heard of people you hang it in the
bathroom and you let the steam get to it
to get the wrinkles out of the suit so I
do that and I'm getting ready and then I
go to put the suit on it's soaking wet
it's December it's New York it's
freezing I don't have like
kote like other people in New York have
or scarves or whatever they wear and so
I put this thing on and I walk I'm like
soaking wet and I have to walk to this
coffee place and by the time I get there
I'm like a sheet of ice and I get there
make sure I'm there an hour early and I
gave the guy like 40 bucks or something
to try to wait for a table to be ready
there was a little more private than the
other tables in the coffee shop and so
when we go I sit down waiting I asked
her what her favorite coffee is ahead of
time boom you know she shows up sit down
with a great conversation for about 45
minutes to an hour and she said I want
this thing but you know you need an
agent and I was like what once he
negotiate yeah like the Pressfield thing
didn't say that in there and when I was
learning about the war of art and the
resistance and all that stuff we talked
about agents in there and I'm like oh no
how do I get one of those she's like all
right your guy I'll introduce you to
four and then just pick one okay so
interview four and how do you know who
the pick so it was crazy so there was
two two males two females they're all
fantastic all great reputations all
amazing the guys I was like it was very
obvious that it wasn't they would've
been great
hey you're not gonna think yeah I'm not
gonna make a wrong choice here so it was
in that sense I was very lucky but I
said okay they're probably not the right
ones but between the two females are
both so amazing but there are 180 out
from each other when I had been around
since the Tom Clancy days small boutique
agency represents John Grisham so you go
in there and you have all these John
Grisham posters all over the place the
whole team comes out sits down and talks
to you it was amazing she was so awesome
and and the other one younger hadn't
really hadn't found her Tom Clancy or
Grisham type person yet bigger agency
that also ICM it's out here in Hollywood
as well and it was such a tough decision
was like a final rose ceremony I haven't
broken up with someone in 20 years but I
felt like I was breaking you know for
someone but I was so invested in both of
these agents I just laid they were both
so fantastic but I felt like I was in
lanai at the time when I made the
decision and I was like and I felt like
the final rose ceremony and then pick
the one with ICM because I thought you
know for this type of a novel and for
where I wanted to go with a movie or
series or something like that to be that
part of them
then to continue building this
foundation of readers I think that's
probably the right choice and I think it
was so you have this plan to turn this
into some sort of a series from the time
you release the very first book yeah
from before that and so what's crazy is
that as I'm writing this now they tell
you not to think of someone playing your
characters your writing but as a child
of the 80s that's almost impossible not
to do so as I'm writing the crazy part
is like usually you think of like Mark
Wahlberg you think of somebody that had
done these sort of things kind of before
but I thought a Chris Pratt and he had
just done all he'd done it's Parks and
Rec and he'd done he had a small role in
zero dark thirty where he plays a seal
he has like a couple lines in there and
for some reason like that's the guy
really had no connection to him and no
it wouldn't been the obvious choice back
then this is 20 so I've start writing in
December of 2014 I think her early 2015
somewhere there so so he wasn't his
giant movie star back there hadn't done
any of that stuff yet and I thought you
know what this is a likable guy and he
seems like an awesome dude I'm getting a
good feeling from him and I thought you
know growing up in the 80s I love Magnum
he started off as a naval intelligence
officer and then they found out about
seals the writers they turned him into a
seal a couple seasons into it and like
everybody loved Magnum in the 80s and
women liked him the guys liked him you
know nothing not to like about Magnum
and he also does the first essentially
what you would call a murder on national
television with the other person not
having a firearm or a weapon and at the
end of I think it's season season three
but the guy a guy that had him as a powa
and Vietnam comes to Hawaii there's a
little conspiracy thing involved and at
the end he thinks he's walking away and
then Magnum asked him if he's seen the
Sun Rise that morning because that
morning when his friend his friend gets
killed there's a sunrise and the guy
turns around he's like yes why and the
magnet turns around and boom and they
stop it right there with this like
fireball coming out of the end of his
1911 and they freeze it right there and
it was the first time on television in
that primetime hour where someone had
killed somebody else the hero had killed
someone else who wasn't armed I forgot
about that very remembering it now it
was very controversial yeah yeah and
it's me so I thought that's who I need I
need somebody who's a likeable guy who's
going to invest in this and
I heard he was like pro-military and
that sort of thing and and because
perhaps the guy and that's all that's
all the thought I gave to it he couldn't
have picked a better job so awesome and
I get who knew he was gonna turn into
with Jurassic Park and he hadn't
passengers he hadn't anything serious
yet but I also thought about because
I've been studying this in something my
whole life and I thought about in the
80s
look what Tom Hanks did in the 80s you
know he's in booze and buddies he's in
dragnet he's in the burbs he's in jail
versus the volcano and then he does
something called Philadelphia in the
early 90s and he takes that risk and
since then he's been able to write his
own ticket he's one of the greatest
actors of his generation and I thought
who's that guy in this generation that
needs to stretch a little bit that needs
to do something different and I'm like
that's that's Chris Pratt he can do this
and so I thought it and then even
crazier before the first book came out I
met Thunder ranch training doing some
shooting stuff up there in Oregon and I
get this call from a guy that I knew in
the SEAL Teams and he's like hey bro do
you remember me and you know you know
Jarrod and I yeah he was out there and
Utah with us and he said hey bro you
remember me yeah of course I remember
you have to go ahead and talk to him in
five years or something and we catch up
a little bit and he's like hey you know
I was wondering thank you for a couple I
was leaving the SEAL Teams I don't know
if you're member but you've had me into
your office you sat me down he talked
about transition you introduced me some
people in the private sector and I've
never forgotten it I was like oh wow hey
of course I'm gonna do that for you
because I mean he's awesome too total
stud great operator and wants to get out
of the team so I'm gonna try to help him
as best I can but he really remembered
it and he said hey I heard you wrote a
book I said yeah it's coming out in a
couple months here they're these galley
copy things which are early copies of a
novel I can send one to you I'd love to
send it and he said yeah I'd love it
that'd be great but I'd like to give one
to a friend of mine and I said yeah no
problem who's that he said Chris Pratt
it's like no way Wow yeah so he gives us
the Chris Chris reads it and next thing
you know he's optioned it before it even
comes out are you a guy who believes in
fate do you believe in destiny so when I
was in Ramadi in 2005-2006
that's where I got to think about this a
little bit because every time you left
the wire anything could have been an iud
and you could have either spent that
time on the way to target and coming
back from Target worried about oh is
that is that dead donkey on the side
that is that gonna blow up and kill me
or kill that hit that Humvee in front of
me that piece of trash right there is
that covering something else is that it
is our wire there you could spend every
single mission especially you want to
and from Target and even on target
worried about that or you could focus on
the mission focus on the job get there
do the job get back and at that time I
was like you know you know I think I
have to resign myself to fate here and a
lot of these things otherwise my mind is
going to be focused not where it needs
to be but on is that night II is that
night II and so I thought all right you
know what if I get blown up today that's
just that's just how it was everything
everything we possibly can to mitigate
that but you know it could happen and
I'm not going to spend an inordinate
amount of bandwidth worried about that
other than trying to mitigate it as best
we possibly can but that's not going to
be the focus of my everything that I'm
thinking about it can't be I need to be
focused on this mission I need to focus
on contingencies there's a firefight I
need to figure out what assets are
available to come in here for QRF or
whatever else what here we have overhead
how do we how do we maneuver here all
those things like that's what I need to
worry what's a QR quick reaction force
so you have those set up at different
places in case you get hit so they can
come on and usually in like Bradley's or
abrams sometimes different vehicles and
have a little more firepower than you do
as you're sneaking through the streets
so so we're kind of resign myself to
fate and there's a book called the
bridge at San Liu array and there's like
I forget how many people will say five
or six people that are on this bridge
and it collapses and the story is how
each one of them got to be on that
bridge why were those six people the
ones that were on that bridge at that
time and its fate so so I guess then I'm
really thought about too much since then
other than that experience in in Iraq
and just having to feeling like I had to
resign myself to it there's perhaps
things eerie though it's crazy it's a
little eerie
I mean wonderfully eerie no eerie maybe
the worst word was pretty amazing I feel
very fortunate yeah and yeah it's one of
those things that you kind of maybe made
that happen like maybe you kind of put
that out there well as you were writing
it thinking about him maybe I don't know
I
see that I said shut up hippie it's like
Oh what do you got a crystal up your ass
too you know but that yeah no I hadn't
if I hadn't
if I was like no I don't know I mean I
was you know whatever an average seal or
whatever but if I you know hadn't taken
the time to sit down with Jared and like
maybe Chris doesn't even know this
exists today right and other crazy part
of this i thought of anton fuqua
directing it really directing it yeah
why why why him because i love you
training day he did training day i got
the Oscar for her training day
Magnificent Seven I knew he'd worked
with Chris on on Magnificent Seven I
actually did know someone who knew him
but so I so I did have that connection
through someone someone else
but I loved shooter which is based on
the book point of impact by Stephen
hunter with Mark Wahlberg I love that
movie because I could I loved the book
so much they made it more modern for
today's time but it's a Vietnam sniper
is Bob Lee swagger those who it
originally is but I just thought he's
the guy he's the guy to direct this
thing and now they're both doing it
wow that's crazy that is very crazy yeah
that's so weird man that you had those
two people in your head like that's what
makes me think I don't I don't not
believe that it's possible to manifest
something but I think most the people
that talk about that stuff are full of
shit yeah that's where it's a problem
like most of the people that talk about
that stuff they're trying to sell you
something that well you know you can
make your life happen and you just need
a dream board and write all those things
down there's a lot of that stuff is
warship because you got to do the work
right that's it
but part of me thinks that if you do do
the work and you do have that focus and
that intensity I feel like there might
be some sort of frequency that you can
tap in where you make things more likely
to happen or possibly you can make
things happen but the thing is you know
like you only hear those stories from
the people that are successful like how
many people are all right Chris Pratt in
my head right now I said Chris yeah and
he's like get the fuck away from me you
know it's it's totally crazy how all
that how all that stuff kind of comes to
comes together you couldn't have picked
a better guy than Chris he is such a
good guy he's such a great guy he's
almost weird
weirdly nice ya know he's so nice maybe
it's just different for around here
maybe
I don't know but he's very different in
terms of like Hollywood actors like
there's a few like him like you know
it's like people love to say that actors
are full of shit they're gross and
they're self-centered narcissist and
yeah it's true a lot of that is it
really but it's not true all the time
yeah and Chris is a great example of a
guy who's like he's a very religious guy
very pro-military very he's a really
positive guy very very very friendly guy
he's not your typical actor yeah also a
huge movie star so it's weird it's like
he's not that you know guy who does coke
and goes to parties and he's a different
different animal
yeah they're they do exist male and
female there's there are actresses that
are great people they just they just
really genuinely enjoy acting but for
the most part the people that get into
it are people that need a
disproportionate amount of attention and
for the most part the people that need a
disproportionate amount of tension are
disproportionately annoying you know
yeah and usually they like to get rid of
the author right away when you option
something cuz I want to get rid of that
guy because he's gonna be on set he's
gonna be like that's not my vision
you're ruining my book or whatever so
I'd like to get rid of but Chris wanted
me involved so I got to help out on the
pilot script that's this thing that's
awesome he's so good now is this a
Netflix things that we're doing it's
still classified okay they're doing some
some announcement at some point but it's
a streaming service oh that's right okay
I know what it is yeah 10 fart series
maybe something like that 8 to 10 parts
though that's per yeah because if they
tried to jam that well you don't have to
anymore yeah it's great people like how
he looks genius right especially now
yeah another crazy fate thing is because
when you were doing that like when you
were writing that in 2016 the streaming
thing wasn't what it is today right and
well even when we did the deal it was
like movie it was kind of like that that
it was early 2020 18 when we did the
deal and it's like well serious or movie
so it's both it could be both in the
contract and now and then they decided
to do the series earlier on before kovat
even was on the radar but now it looks
like yeah genius move well now like
series have a giant advantage over
movies too now
movies are getting released on yeah he's
a really interesting thing today
one of those theater chains was saying
that they're not going to have Universal
films anymore because Universal released
rolls on direct to demand with people
with Apple TV and Amazon stuff like that
so these cinemas are now going to war
like publicly going to war with the
studios because they're saying hey you
need to release your fucking movies in
our theaters we got a business together
and then the theaters like you know the
movie production companies like you
might not have a business and six months
off because who the fuck is gonna go to
the movies now I know even when they're
like okay it's all good we're open up
may 1st or whatever it is or yeah who's
gonna rush right back with their kids
it's not gonna be what it used to be
it's gonna take a in the way down
anytime yeah they were because well I've
been saying forever I would love if you
know I have a big TV at home I would
love if I could just watch movies on TV
I don't want to go to the movie and some
guys talking to his girlfriend in the
middle of moving ruining everything or
people checking their phones they see
the light from their phone walks in no
sudden you're like the whole time with
my kids just on edge the entire time I
read about this lower the exits you know
that sort of thing which is important to
do in a movie theater it's like there's
smoke or whatever you know you go to the
wall that sort of stuff
but yeah it's yeah when I stay I stay at
home enjoy it at home make your popcorn
at home so it's looking like a good move
now but coming back to that to him back
to the faith thing so it's also like
what if I had not been a you know the
operator or whatever that I was what if
the guy had a different impression of me
that sat next to Brad Thor at the
fundraiser yeah he's not gonna recommend
me to to Brad the or if I was if he had
a bad impression from here they thought
I was a bad operator or had a bad
reputation or whatever else like he's
not gonna make them mention my name
it's a brad thor so all those little
things that kind of came together or
what if I didn't read growing up oh I
didn't read all these guys like David
morale created Rambo in 1972 and or wee
brother heard of the rose early on which
also solidified me to go into the SEAL
Teams I was already on the path but he
has one sentence in that book
brotherhood of the road
that it talks about seals and I've had
such a good time such a great experience
reading that novel that I knew that one
day I'd write in the same genre as he
does and now he's a he's a dear friend
now he's absolutely incredible guy so
all those little things just kind of
happen I mean they happened but I did
them because I was passionate about them
was passionate about reading passionate
about writing passionate about serving
my country passionate about being the
best operator I could possibly be so
always focused on those things and then
you know these other things kind of it
helped it helped propel this whole thing
forward so that seems like the formula
for success in everything really really
does like being passionate about
something focusing all your attention
and all your energy and really trying to
do your best at something that seems
like the formula do the work and it's a
recipe book is called do the work you
have to do that before anything else can
happen you can't just wish that
something was gonna happen and you know
you have to sit down and do the work
whether it's right comedy whether it's
write a novel yeah start a gym whatever
you're gonna do like you have to sit
down and do the work and people don't
they for whatever reason don't quantify
in their head that all those little
things you don't feel like doing when
you just make yourself do them they all
add up yeah and it really makes
something happen that doesn't happen
before it's not gonna happen otherwise
no one's gonna do it for you no no one I
hear authors talking all the time about
what their publisher doesn't do for them
so my agent doesn't do anything yeah be
undeniable they can't do shit then yeah
for me I'm like well I have no
background I'm not coming from politics
I'm not coming from sports I'm not
coming from anything where I have any
sort of a following that's gonna you
know push me forward in this type of a
realm what are they they don't owe me
anything I owe them something I need to
prove myself to them and prove that I
was a good investment because most books
don't make back their initial investment
so initially you have to make most books
yeah there's a few of them comic movies
like all the movie all the Avengers and
all that sort of stuff makes the money
back for the studio's for all they are
the ones that no one sees that maybe
even Oscars but aren't making back their
money so same thing in publishing
there's a few at the top like the
Stephen King's and Brad Thor's and Vince
Flynn's and all that they make it back
for all the books that don't make back
their investment so I was like I need to
prove myself to Simon and Schuster how
am I going to do that well
I owe them they gave me this shot and so
I'm not gonna leave any rock unturned
I'm gonna look at things like from other
industries like black rifle coffee how
did they build a coffee company like
guys get out of the military and out of
the agency how do these guys get
together and make some youtube videos
and all of a sudden now they have this
amazing company well it's bought a huge
company it's an amazing product at its
base but you know what else they did oh
they did some advertising they did some
marketing they did their own marketing
on advertising on social media platforms
and they connected with other people
that had similar interests or that they
thought might be able to then grow the
brand and also help those other brands
along the way well it's also this it's
authentic like Evan really Oh Evan hey
for the CEO black raffle coffee has
always been a coffee freak yeah so alive
used to fucking roast coffee in the back
of his hummus amazing yeah he's great he
takes you through you sense that
passions when he talks about coffee it's
like me talking about writing you know
you can sense that passion and it's
incredibly from him now I'm turning into
more of a coffee snob like before I
wasn't but now that I know him and all
those guys and have seen the process and
now I'm a total coffee snob does he give
you a hard time because Reese likes
honey and a little bit cream in his
coffee not as much as I thought he would
because you know when he makes coffee
it's really good without anything in it
like when he does what he's doing and
they do that thing with a glass deal and
the whole thing it's only measures it
out yeah and they weigh it and the whole
thing it's awesome for me I mean getting
up in the morning it's chaos the kids
you know it's insanity and so we just
hit the coffee maker like rival coffees
in there and I toss in some honey toffee
sauce and some cream so that's you give
you shit about putting honey in your
coffee yes so much just like the
protagonist of these stories they they
like the coffee black well in real life
a lot of seals and Special Forces guys
like their coffee black also they like
to suffer and yeah but I always liked
you know that latte I can get that
caramel macchiato latte so I always I
always did that and then I found out
about honey and coffee and honey and tea
later but it just was very natural for
me to write that into the character
because he has a background similar to
to me as a former Navy SEAL sniper it
becomes an officer and he's got this
point in his time in uniform where he's
gonna get out and take care of his
family which is where I was when I
started right
so I learned him to be relatable I
didn't want him to be a superhero I
wanted her to be someone that wasn't was
good at some things like kicking in
doors like the taking sniper shot some
of the things that I'm okay at but then
also surveillance side of the house some
of the things that we don't typically do
in the SEAL team he's not as good at
those sorts of things and maybe he
drives a fj6 to Land Cruiser because I
love Land Cruisers and there's also you
know that whole subculture of people
that love Land Cruisers yeah I can bring
into the fold also so it's very natural
for me to talk about those vehicles and
then develop characters by talking about
a defender 110 Land Cruiser I'll give
each other a hard time whatever else or
nine bill moyers 45 or whatever just use
those things as character development
tools so it was very natural for me to
add honey and cream to protagonist
coffee because that's what I drink at
home a daily that's got to be the
interesting one of one of the many many
interesting things about writing a
character is that you can incorporate
your own little quirks and the Resco
watches all the different stuff that
you're you mean and the the gear thing
too it's like you're very meticulous and
very specific about the type of gear and
and how he prepares everything you happy
very very odd for me not to do that and
some people don't like it and there are
plenty of books where someone takes the
safety off on their Glock before they
shoot someone or something like that or
they click it off on a revolver or
whatever like there's plenty books out
there that do that and you know I won't
making a mistake that egregious I'm sure
I'll make a mistake at some point for
the people that really but when you see
a mistake like that doesn't it take you
out a little bit it's like watching a
movie where they really kind of jack
something up and I'm like because the
worst thing to do is watch out like a
seal movie with a seal or like a police
movie with a cop or whatever that's all
gonna tell you about all the mistakes so
you can't enjoy the film so I try to
just enjoy them for what they are but it
does take you out he just like what else
did they get kind of not right at the
guys like writing the safety off on this
clock so so for me it's very natural to
incorporate that gear and it's also very
natural for me to talk about it because
I was so into it for so long that I know
a lot of people in these industries and
like this is an Aries watch right here I
was at the cia's friends with Evan haver
you know so I've talked to happen be
okay
this dude legit he's like oh yeah he's
legit so so like all that stuff gets
woven in there as well it's just so
natural for me to do and also you know
when I see somebody I can tell a lot
about them by what they're carrying how
they're carrying it you know what kind
of belt they're they're using what kind
she was they're wearing what kind of
knife is in their pocket like I can tell
a lot about them it tells a story
immediately so I'm reading them without
them saying one word and so my
characters do that as well and then I
use those tools to describe other
characters that that aren't me that
aren't a seal that aren't somebody else
well I know how SF guys travel or now
they have they do have their packs or
whatever and F wherever it is or I know
someone that doesn't really know what
they're doing this character doesn't
really know what they're doing so yeah
he's gonna be carrying this 1911 that's
brand new that he's not carrying cocked
and locked doesn't have one of the
chamber whatever it is like I can tell a
lot about someone just by looking at
their setup with a quick glance so it's
very natural for me to do that in
stories as well and it gives me a lot to
work with how many how many seals are
novelists it's not common there are
seals obviously who get out and write
nonfiction yeah Richard Marcinko who
created Marcinko I read the first books
that I ever read on military and oh nice
nice yeah early nineties and when that
came out I was so excited because I had
read everything you possibly could on
seals up until that point because I
wanted to be a CEO since I was seven
years old I knew I was gonna be in the
military even before that books come out
those came out in the 90s so I was odd
really yep early 90s that was the first
one I know if I can read them yeah read
World War I felt like I read them before
then but I guess that makes sense
no plant time kind of blends together so
when I found out hey there's an
autobiography
coming out about the guy that started
this command damn knack on the East
Coast its counter-terrorist you know I
was so excited to read that book what's
then there an issue to people kind of
upset that he was telling these stories
I think so but it's a kid reading that I
don't know any that back story you're
just like oh this is amazing
yeah I've had an incredible life to be
able to write a book and the first
commanding officer of Delta Force wrote
a book called the Delta Force and I
think 1986 which really goes into the
Iranian hostage crisis and does what
happened to desert one in 1980 and that
was a very formative time for me because
I knew I was going in the military and
at the time Walter Cronkite's
on TV you were watching
during dinner he's counting down the
days that US personnel have been taken
hostage in Iran and I'm seeing those
click down times everything I wake up
every single night and I'm wondering I
see the pictures black and white photos
of US military and people from the State
Department I didn't know that at the
time though I see a guy in a suit and a
guy in a military uniform blindfolded in
black and white photos on the cover of
the newspaper and I'm wondering why all
right why is the United States standing
by and letting this happen even though
I'm 6 years old at the time why is this
happening why don't we go in there and
get those guys and then desert what
happens and of course that's that's on
the mind it's still shades everything we
do is a specialist in special operations
was a big black eye for the country
special operations and explain to people
what happens so so six months after the
hostages were taken in Iran so they were
taken I think in November of 1979 and
about six months they were eventually
held for 444 days but about five six
months into that we made an attempt to
rescue them so they're being held at the
Embassy still or an adjacent building I
think and we was the first use that most
people know of what's called Delta Force
so our premier counter-terrorist unit
that it's modeled after the British SAS
and the British SAS
has been in service for a long time so
we had guys that went through their
program in the sixties even and they
took those lessons and created ours
because late 60s mid 70s there's a lot
of hijackings we have the Munich
Olympics we have all these cabbies these
terrorist events and we don't really
have a good way to counter them and so
Delta Force is created and their first
test was Operation Eagle Claw to rescue
the hostages in Iran so it's just an
anniversary of it just happened the
other day
so April 1980 would give it a shot and
it didn't work out so what happened was
we have Marine pilots flying these sea
stallion helicopters off I think it was
the USS Nimitz I think so they're flying
off an aircraft carrier they're meeting
the assaulters from Delta Force who are
flying in on c-130s from an island
called massara and
the Gulf of Oman we're a place where we
would then launch into Afghanistan years
later interestedly now if I spent a
little time time there and they were
going to meet up in the desert and
outside of Tehran Iran a few hundred
miles outside the fattest city so the
c-130s land ec130 s land that have fuel
helicopters land from the aircraft
carrier
they're going to refuel those helos and
the planes are going back to massara and
the helicopter is going to get closer to
Tehran so they're gonna get closer
they're gonna land they're gonna get
camouflaged during the day and then some
guys who have been on the ground in Iran
this is the best part of the story that
no one really talks about we've had guys
on the ground in Iran we had an e6 Air
Force guy that spoke Farsi we had a
Special Operations legend dick Meadows I
was also on the Sante arrayed in Vietnam
and we have two Special Forces guys out
of Germany and then two CIA assets I
think one's called Bob and one one's
named Mohammad and they had to get
vehicles out there to the hide site what
the Delta Force guys are and then
they're gonna assault they're gonna go
in they're gonna retake the embassy
they're gonna get the hostages and then
the helicopters are going to take back
off land in a soccer stadium next door
and they're gonna extract from their
exfil from there so what happened was
the planes land helicopters have some
had mechanical problems couple get lost
in the sandstorm they needed six to do
the mission they launched with eight
less than six make it to that link-up
point in the desert so they have to
scrap its called no-go criteria so it
takes a decision essentially away from
the ground Force commander because ahead
of time he knows that if we don't have
if we have four helicopters we can't do
this mission so instead of being on the
ground saying okay we have four how many
guys do you have can we do it with this
those decisions have been made ahead of
time in the planning process so the
helicopters land not enough they scrap
the mission they're bored and what would
have happened is they would have gone
back and they would have reconstituted
and gone after the hostages a few days
later but one of the helicopters in
refueling collides with one of the ec130
s huge explosion eight US servicemen
died and so they don't go take da
Stooges they don't go back for the
hostages again a few days later Iran
moves the hostages different locations
all over Iran to make it a lot more
difficult if we had gone after them
again but the next day
President Carter makes an announcement
said we tried to get the hostages didn't
work had this disaster in the desert and
it was a big black eye for his his
presidency and for special operations in
general but the important part we took
those lessons and we we applied them
going forward so and how we trained all
together instead of having all these
pilots and assaulters and all these
people that have never really trained
together up until that point well now we
do now we have a Special Operations
Command we all train together so pilots
are trained you're doing all this stuff
together so when 9/11 hit all those
years later we're much more prepared
because of what happened to desert one
so that's how we honor those guys that
died that's how we honor that mission is
by taking those lessons and apply them
going forward and that's what you
interesting ly not that's what you do in
life also when you have to learn these
lessons and apply them going for it's
all about how you apply them going
forward well that's a huge advantage for
you as an author to have all that
information to have that legitimate
background like to be writing about
these things like we're talking about
guys who are writing about taking
safeties off clocks people that really
don't know what they're writing about
when they do it's like I mean you can be
creative and pretend you're a ballerina
without of every ballet danced but I
don't think it's gonna be the same and
there's there's an authenticity to the
way you write and to the one book that
I've read at least savage son where it
you just it there's a frequency that you
tap into that is a frequency of a person
that has experienced this stuff in real
life you're not imagining you know
there's a lot of there's a lot of stuff
where people write about things where
they're imagining you know there's a
movie called warrior where it's an MMA
movie oh yeah they fight two days in a
row and when they know they fought two
days around my kid though I'm watching
what are you talk you have fight two
days in a row have you ever seen someone
the day after a fight you look at the
fucking Elephant Man right her whole
body's a mess everything's swollen like
this is nonsense but someone that
doesn't know is like this in the story
they're gonna he's gonna lose the first
night but the next night he's gonna go
he's gonna win
exactly these do things that take you
out of like you if it's a it's a world
they don't really know about and they're
writing about this world whereas you're
writing about a world that you were so
deeply embedded in for all those years
that when you're writing about it it's
just it's really compelling it's very
interesting thank you yeah I got
coorporate some real world stuff in
there too like a shot that I didn't take
in to Jaffa RAC and I fictionalized that
by having a memory from Fallujah and so
I joined morph it around a little bit
but the passion is there the feelings
and emotions behind it are there and
it's woven into the first story and then
some and so it's very therapeutic I get
to take and I was very lucky
downrange like you can do all the right
things in combat like if you were to
have white board something out here and
we talk about tactics and all the rest
of it you could make those exact same
right decisions downrange and things can
still go south and people can die then
the other is opposite truly you can make
all the wrong decisions of quote-unquote
wrong decisions and things can work out
just fine like life so you could show
whether you made mistakes or not point
thing you're gonna have a hard time
dealing with them later and for whatever
reason whether it was luck or whatever
else I sleep very well at night because
of the things that that was involved in
downrange but I still got to tap into
them and put them into the story now
there's a going back to what you said
about seals writing books interestingly
enough in the first book there's an
interrogation scene interrogation an
interview meaning not not a torture
scene but sitting down with NCIS though
the Naval Criminal Investigation service
and so some bad things my career wasn't
all all wonderful like the downrange
stuff very lucky very fortunate to be in
a couple right places at the right time
to do some interesting things but when
we got back a good buddy of mine Mark
Owen he writes a book called no easy day
and that's the one about the bin Laden
raid and that one that was like a
tipping point because in our community
at the time they've been active valour
that movie with it with seals
active-duty seals playing characters in
an actual movie there were other books
out there so there's already discussion
happening like hey are we too much in
the limelight here we're supposed to be
these quiet professionals but you know
going back in time I read all these
Vietnam books growing up and every
autobiography I could about people in
the military you know grant has his
memoirs or whatever so there's there's a
precedent not just in this country but
worldwide
people getting out talking about their
experiences and that's part of a
first-person account the historians will
use later is it frowned upon at all so
it it got it was starting to get even
more and more frowned upon right up to
that point and that was a tipping point
so and that book came out that's when
everyone said or not everyone senior
level leaders were like okay stop all
stop and they really well because of
that book they went and invented all the
investigations that happened they went
in and essentially anyone that had a
connection with him they pulled in and
investigated as a way to put pressure on
him to get what they wanted so so I was
one of those guys known him for since 99
or something like that so we've been
dear friends since that time and so we
have emails going back all these years
so I got pulled in to this interrogation
room and they pulled out single personal
emails single sentences totally out of
context to try to get me for something
that would put pressure on him and they
did that not just with me but with
almost anyone that had some sort of a
connection with him they investigated
because he's already out of the military
so so things that you said totally out
of context like joking around about
something or is just statements about
yeah just statements like what did you
mean by what did you mean by this
and I used that in the first novel cuz
I'm sitting there in this interrogation
you got these guys across from you and
essentially NCIS air from my perspective
are people that they couldn't make it in
the FBI or the CIA and they weren't
tough enough to be street cops so now
they're busting people on piss tests in
the military and that sort of thing
actually my first experience with them
was after September 11th and you know I
think we're all in the same team
and we're doing these ship warnings in
the northern Arabian Gulf to enforce the
UN embargo for oil tankers that are
leaving Iraq and then going to Iran and
so our job was to take those ships down
before they got to Iranian waters and
then the UN would take over after that
but it was a really interesting time
because like a cop pulling over someone
you're walking up and you don't really
know what's going on and so they would
come out of out of Iraq they had all
these metal over all the windows it cut
off all the ladders on the ship so you'd
have to use a caving ladder to hook
climb up and then you have to breach and
get inside these things and get them
back into the Gulf before big hit
Iranian waters otherwise you so it was
kind of a crazy deal but during one end
we're doing a couple nights on a couple
nights off that sort of thing with
another platoon and then NCIS shows up
and they pull us all of these different
rooms and they said hey so in an m60
some sort of a big machine gun typing
was has gone missing on one of these
ships that you guys were on and I was
like oh that's terrible you know well
how can I help you and so they start
talking and make how how would you get
one off a ship if you wanted to steal a
machine got a premiership how would you
get it off and me I was gonna creative
I'm like we're on the same team here I'm
like I'll this what I would do I'd taken
off piece by piece and wherever I said
no so I gave him I and then as I was
nearing the end I'm seeing it in their
face and seeing the notes they're taking
I'm like wait a second are they like
trying to get me to like I didn't take
out m60 off a ship piece by piece we're
only on there for like a problem is
you're an author and I'm trying to think
it all through yeah so I'm like yeah I
had a bad experience with them but so
what are they saying to you anyway so do
this they start accusing you in in with
the Marco and older than they're no they
didn't accuse me but I could tell it
things shifted is I'm getting so
creative and telling them how I do it
these guys are just like anyway so I
kind of figured it out near the end and
I'm like oh wow this is not this doesn't
something to feeling quite right here
like these guys are just after a win
that's what there there's drunk yes
somebody that's your job if they can get
a seal even better
so after said after Mark Owen wrote book
no easy day the same thing and you saw
these guys across the table and his
years later so I wasn't like immediately
they went after some guys immediately
whatever but they put all this together
over a long time and fall it was their
alternate goals and what do they want I
think they went him to it they wanted to
build a case against him a criminal case
against him for what for not submitting
his book to the Department of Defense
for review and is that so they can
redact certain things the classified
yeah which is why I was hypersensitive
to it and even though miner fiction I
submitted them and that is a protocol so
when all those things in your book word
says redacted is that why it's redacted
really so it's because of them yeah so
they made me very sensitive to it so no
other author of fiction that has the
class effect the the security clearances
that I had no one else submits fiction
but I was so I just tied to this because
of my experience with the Mark Owen book
and when they tried to do I was like I
just want to make sure right and I said
what they've taken out absolutely
ridiculous so the first book I didn't
appeal it because they took 45 days to
do it which I thought was pretty good
because they say they'll take 30 yeah
and if that's pretty good they took out
up nine lines or something like that
which is fine but the second one they a
month goes by and two then three then
four then five then six and they get
almost to the seven month mark when they
can finally get back to me so at this
point we had to push the publication
date well to the summer it's like a
movie trying to figure out like when you
don't want to Avengers movies coming out
at the same time from the same studio
right so it's so these are thought well
ahead of time so it was not convenient
to have to push it all the way to the
end of July so I was a pain and every
single thing in there that was blacked
out my attorneys found in publicly
available government documents so not
just like on Wikipedia or from somebody
else that wrote a book or no publicly
available government websites
government documents that anyone on
earth so they have done their due
diligence to check if that stuff had
actually been released already publicly
my lawyers did yeah but the people the
the the people you submitted to it the
defense they just have this black pan
and they're just just taking things out
and then they see Oh CIA will send it
off to the CIA you know I don't work for
the CIA but they send it off and then
that starts the CIA clock looking at it
it's just ridiculous and this is not
something you had to do it's by
precedent no because it's fiction
because it's fiction by precedent now
like we talked about those laws earlier
three felonies a day yeah laws are
written if you look at them pretty
broadly so the government can interpret
them the way they want to and I didn't
always used to be the case you go back
50 years the idea was you had to write a
law that the average guy could
understand in one when you looked at it
one time read it it's evident what that
law means not anymore the language
involved how long they are how tough
they are to decipher even for attorneys
to decipher
so it's it's written in a way that's
they can come after anyone they want for
anything which is by design and they
used it to go after mark Koehn they used
it even though that's nonfiction you
know maybe should have he went to an
attorney I had experience in this space
what you would do
who's the best attorney for this oh the
guy that did a book called kill bin
Laden with someone from Delta Force
that guy has experience I'll go to him
so he went to that lawyer who said no
you don't need to submit this so there's
lawsuits and all sorts of stuff that are
associated with that but for me what
they did this is years later his second
book he sends it to me so I'm getting
ready to get out of the military he
sends me the second book and says hey
what do you think of this and so I read
it and I give you know real quick and
then I said I'm like one no that's it
awesome maybe in the first part in the
preface maybe talk about your experience
over the last couple years with the
first book and what the government did
to you and how you reacted just people
were probably interested in that so I
wrote that so now I'm into this
interrogation room with these NCIS guys
and that's one of the things that they
pull out and said so why are you editing
classified material that hasn't been
approved but like I don't know
guys guys a good friend sends me the
sends me the thing I look at it so what
they wanted was to just put pressure on
him and said I'm gonna go after your
buddy if you don't do this for us which
was to say so what did they want from
him I think they wanted he was guilty
and they also wanted a state of not
submit of not submitting it to the
Department of Defense office of
pre-publication and security review not
going through you want to make an
example of him so that anybody else
getting out would know that they had to
do that and I don't think it worked is
there's plenty box out there that a
nonfiction that have not been through
that process but that's what they wanted
from him they weren't all the money from
it which was the money yep and
interestingly enough all the money and
he was always gonna give it all that's
the other part of this is so interesting
is because I've known him for so long he
was always gonna give it all away and he
had no reason to tell me that you know a
year before them whatever however long
it was before like he wasn't setting
this up as some criminal mastermind but
he was always gonna give it away to a
seal foundation and when the book came
out it all want to do a bank account but
guess what came out of the background
lawyer fees after
that so he still had all the money
except for the lawyer fees and then they
still go after you for taxes that you're
supposed to be anyway it's the
government so so they wanted that money
anything money going forward like if
they made a movie from it all those
proceeds they just wanted to crush them
and make an example of him so other
people would submit or make people think
about knots not even writing anything
anyway how did it all end up so it's a
lawsuit with the attorney that gave a
bad advice I'm not sure exactly where
that is and then all the money went back
to the government that was in the
account and he's paying off the rest of
it that went to attorney fees so so he
didn't make anything no Wow one penny
all the money went to the government all
of my cell and plus taxes so double
money so so all the money goes to the
government because he lost is that the
idea because because they finally put
enough pressure on where the lawyers do
their thing and they figure out a
settlement of some sort and that was the
settlement all the money Wow
and his second book the same deal I know
that went through the process went
through but after I read it so he sent
it to me before he sent it in there's
nothing but you read it and that's what
they that's one of the things they used
to try to get him to do what they wanted
so and that wasn't the only one there's
all everybody that knew him got got
pulled into this thing but point being
is that had that not happened then that
interrogation scene in my novel where
James Reese sits down after what happens
to his team who sits down with those
guys across the table I changed
Afghanistan Jane from San Diego to
Afghanistan but that's how I felt about
the guy sitting across the table from me
so it feels real because I wasn't just
like hey have you read into
interrogation room or I'm arresting a
couple cops shows where they have
somebody in an interrogation room I'll
just kind of write what that looks like
or feels like no that's what it feels
like to be in there having these eyes on
you having them tell you that there's no
cameras on when you know that there are
and all all that sort of thing so I got
to put all that together and make the
book what it is so without that
happening without them trying to go
after me to put pressure on him and all
we're gonna associated with that the
first book would not be nearly as good
like the combat stuff yeah it's
different but the other stuff the
conspiracy side of the house and and the
NCIS guys and that interrogation in
particular and some of the bad guys
that's once again you can't kill people
in real life but you know what you can't
you can't in fiction and so it made it
so much better than it would have been
otherwise so now looking back and I
thank him to this day I'm like you know
that first book that resonated with
Simon & Schuster for some reason and a
lot of its what happened downrange and
those feelings and emotions but a lot of
it is because of what happened with with
you as I was getting now that's
interesting so now when you create these
characters do you write a backstory do
you spend time like writing out this
guy's life and then sort of use pieces
of that in the story or do you write it
along while you're writing the story
because he was had a background so
similar at mine I didn't need to do that
so I didn't need to create so now I am
for this fourth one because now there's
so many characters that it's hard to
keep spelling straight and background
straight and all that sort of things so
now I have these family trees and these
characters written out on Scrivener
which is how I write it yeah so good to
organize things and left so CLE hit that
button it's all turns into like a poster
board type thing but I didn't use that
one until the third one up until that
point I was using word and like copying
and pasting and then scrolling and then
putting it in where I wanted and then
you know maybe I didn't cut because I he
was worried I was gonna delete and then
I go back and now delete it so it's so
nice to use Scrivener like that just
makes it so much easier to do that so so
now I do but at the beginning I didn't
with one novel and kind of creating you
have the story so I did that I wrote six
or seven different ideas down like one
page executive summaries as I was
getting ready the one I wanted to start
with was savage Sun that was the one I
wanted to start with really but I knew
the characters weren't quite at that
place where I could explore the dark
side of man I needed to get readers
invested in them take him on a journey
much like I learned about Joseph
Campbell and the hero's journey and here
with a thousand faces back in 1988 I had
to take him on that sort of a journey
and get him to that point where I could
explore the dark side of man through
these characters so so let's had to
start with that that first one it was
very evident it's gonna be the terminal
list that's the one so I took that one
page executive summary turned into an
outline but if I came to a point in that
outline where I got stuck and this is
the important part I didn't say uh-huh
and readers aren't gonna figure this out
they're not gonna come along on me with
this journey
believable I just went around it because
I'm not on the battlefield I'm solving
problems on the page like I am I'm
adapting like I am on the battlefield
but you know what I can sleep on it and
I don't have to solve this problem right
now I can get five months down the line
and just continue going and eventually
I'm gonna figure this problem out and
it's gonna work out so I didn't let
anything any obstacle stop me as I was
writing that outline and I took that
outline and started writing and as I
figured out those problems then I would
change the outline and I would adapt it
so I could have a visual representation
of what was going on and then eventually
about the 75% point then I just
discarded the outline completely and
just kept writing so Scrivener made that
a ton easier for the third book because
doing it in Word was a pain there is
apparently a way that you could set up
word to behave like Scrivener oh really
yeah I read an article on it and I tried
to do it and I was like I fucking give
up just gonna up using Scrivener I just
love how word I write bits in word
because I can get it on my phone I can
get it on a computer just log into
Microsoft Word and it just shows me all
the files any laptop any computer I use
any phone I use it just goes right to it
where it's like with Scrivener you have
to like upload it to Dropbox and then to
get it from drop was a little that's a
banner and then when I send it to the
editor I did that thing were changes it
to word and then I'm in word the rest of
the time no Mac described after I did
that was the finished product yeah as
finishes it could be any what else has
changed from the time you wrote your
first book to now in terms of like your
process and and and how you do it and
what do you think you're better at now
than you were when you started
so the timeline is obviously compressed
now so I started writing the second one
before I'd even submitted the first one
to Simon & Schuster because I was always
gonna write those two because of that
John Grisham story and him not being
able to give a time to kill away so I
was always gonna write too so I was
already in Mozambique I was already
doing that that research over there
already writing that second one and if
both of them didn't work out then I was
gonna reevaluate my life choices but I
was always gonna go all-in on - so now
so point being for the second one I
wasn't yet on that year timeline because
there was no deal hadn't even gone to
Simon and Schuster and then once the
first one did get to Simon & Schuster
then they plotted it out and I
still had another over a year before I
came out while I'm working on the other
one so this third one is the first one
that I've had but to be on that year
long time line for but I've had it in my
head for so long so this fourth one now
is the one where things are really
compressed because especially because of
copa90 and having to adapt at the last
second for this book tour and having to
think of things that I wouldn't
necessarily have thought had to think of
otherwise like helping these independent
bookstores I can't away drive business
towards them they're hurting so bad
right now how can I help they were
hurting before this right well people
are going back to him yeah they're
hurting for a while and then people were
going back
yeah it's people like that page in their
hand they'd like to have that experience
with someone that they know in their
hometown so so those kind of bookstores
were actually on the upswing it was like
the bigger ones never always important
ears ago yeah Barnes & Noble adapting
ish they're kind of hurt and so the
little ones like okay they're part of a
you know just a Main Street Park City
there's a bookstore there the dollars
right there it's great little chocolate
place attached to it get some coffee tea
whatever so it's great so I figure how
do I help them at the same time and what
I typically with these signed book
plates you can only get through those
independent bookstores so anybody wants
a signed book that's where they have to
go so did that I have some merchandise
on my site all of that it was already
going 100% to these veteran focus
foundations that I had some sort of a
touch point with cuz they'd help friend
of mine or whatever else but now it's
all going Center for disaster
philanthropy cope with 19 response fund
so they're things to talk about on
interviews rather than oh I have a new
book out you can talk about though how
you're trying to help as you're
launching or talk about preparedness
talk about what the enemy is learning by
watching our response to cope in 19 and
how they're incorporating that into
future battle plans those sorts of
things so how do adapt do virtual book
signings that sort of thing they're Q&A
is using the technology that wasn't
available 10 to 20 years ago certainly
30 30 40 years ago to to today so I had
to spend all that time doing doing that
so point being this fourth one when I
get back from here it's all in back on
book 4 which is it should be great cuz I
love writing that's what I love to do
and the other side of it the business
side of it that we've been talking about
that
is interesting to me because I'm
learning something new and I love
learning new things and I wouldn't be
learning about branding and marketing
and all this sort of thing if I didn't
have a product if I didn't have a book
and it and I can help other people as
they're getting out of the military
starting other businesses that aren't
even writing related at all I can help
them and talk to them about my
experience and what I've learned and how
I've adapted because I had to
no one's gonna hand this stuff to you
you have to go out there prove yourself
get after it do the work and be smart
about it
you have to study that landscape so I
studied social media for like a year
before I even did my first post and but
I saw people I studied I said what do I
like what do I not like what's
appropriate what's not did you write
this stuff down or just keep it on the
head
no kept that in my head that's that's
pretty obvious like what's appropriate
and what's not like when someone walks
into that general store very very clear
what's how you should treat someone
whether they come in yelling and
screaming or they come in asking for
directions right thanks that's some
basic stuff that a lot of people don't
don't quite get how fortuitous is it
that you're writing about infectious
diseases and then this shit goes down I
mean if there's ever a person who got a
gift by a tragedy it's crazy because I
don't know that research in the fall and
into the early part of the year did you
go to Galveston
the CDC no no I talked to doctors that
have been involved in infectious
diseases and with the weaponization of
infectious diseases and that I read
through some books out there although I
stuff online but the online stuff you
have to be able really careful about and
check with other people that really know
what they're doing even though it's
fiction
so I done all that part of it ahead of
time so what really changed for me as
far as what I'm doing now and what I'm
incorporating from this is what our
response has been took over nineteen
because it's put obviously our economy
into a tailspin so what's the enemy
doing the enemy is looking at that and
realizing this this invisible
virus has done to the United States with
the Soviet Union couldn't do in 40 plus
years of trying so how do we incorporate
that into future battle plans can't we
have a strategy even though failure what
if there's just a threat of a bio attack
what if there is a failed bio attack
somewhere it's still going to affect
that economy especially right now with
us being so gun-shy about all these
sorts of things so
what are they taking from that and what
are they learning to apply going forward
so for my fourth novel I'm taking those
lessons of what the enemy is learning
from this and how they're going to I
think they're going to apply it going
forward and incorporating that into a
fictional narrative so in in that sense
you know I'm trying to yeah learn always
learning it's always important to learn
and apply it going forward and you
you're you're also you're in the middle
of writing this story but you're also
living a life of a person that actually
has to deal with this corona virus
pandemic where the whole world is kind
of shut down like as a just as a human
being when you're dealing with this
what's frustrating for you about how
everything is going down you know I
think it's what we just talked about as
far as people not taking these lessons
seriously going forward and making this
a stronger country because of this so
you get knocked down you get back up
you're stronger for it you've learned
something we're talking about in jujitsu
you know it's either you learn and and
so what are we gonna learn from that
we're gonna apply that going forward so
like the whole thing with the Iran
crisis hostage situation we learned from
that we applied those lessons and we
were more prepared from 9/11 as a
special operations force because of it
so for this I worry just like you said
our people are gonna go back to their
old ways after this they can't wait to I
can't wait to slide back into their old
ways yeah so are we gonna be a stronger
citizenry maybe it may be a certain
percentage take these lessons to heart I
don't know but so I think that's
probably the it's it's knowing that
people expect the government to take
care of them and that's the expectation
yeah not you it's not you don't have to
take care of yourself or your family the
government's gonna go looking for a
daddy yeah how do I get that what 1,200
whatever that whatever money they handed
out oh great well you know what's even
better you being strong self-reliant
self-sufficient and having your kids
look up and see how you're handling this
and say well the mom and dad are either
in the kitchen talking about how much
they're worried about paying that rent
or that mortgage or they're in that
kitchen maybe talking about it even if
they are worried in a way like hey how
do we do this better next time how do we
prepare as on the other side of this and
one of the things we can do now to get
better prepared if this happens two
months from now a year from now five
years from now and the kids can see that
too or they see mom and dad in the
kitchen
about hail we are so lucky that we
prepared for this we were prepared
financially we had a little food here
whatever it is and so the kids will take
those those lessons on take those to
heart because they're very
impressionable right now especially at
14 12 and 9 and they're definitely
processing this and they're catching
things on the news and they're talking
to friends on there on social media
they're texting back and forth of all
that sort of things so this can either
make them stronger citizens going
forward or they can see mommy look mom
and dad relied on government we came out
the other side of this we got this check
and nothing really changed so oh what
lesson are they gonna take going forward
right so it's a very important time not
just how you deal with this okay and how
you get through it now you move forward
better for it but because of the lessons
that we're teaching our kids whether we
mean to or not it doesn't have to be a
conscious thing like they were gonna
take lessons and as parents it's up to
us to figure out what those lessons are
gonna be and we can morph it and make
them stronger more self-reliant going
forward like our daughter sees our
freezers full of elk and moose and she
we pull that out which frost it and
she's she's a part of it because she
knows she got this elk in Colorado last
year now she's feeding our how old is
your daughter she's 14
Wow she shot her first elk at 14 got a
first look at 10 yeah no kidding tagging
New Mexico at 10 yeah so somebody it was
a retirement gift a great guy and I said
you know excuse me - one for me and one
for my wife or one for me with my
daughter and I was like you know what I
got an elk last year in New Mexico
public land
it was crazy crazy but I was like you
know can I transfer that to my wife my
wife and daughter go do this together
and I'm with them also on a family
experience and he was like yeah
absolutely that's let's do it and so she
was 10 yeah standing off sticks 307
yards one shot and the guide was he said
Miss and she's been hunting before she's
been hunting since she was seven and she
is good and I was like oh you know I was
a tough shot I know it's okay how'd you
feel about that shot she's like I feel
good I'm like oh it's just a
ten-year-old saying that because they
don't want to kind of lose face in front
of the guide and moms there and dads
there
and uh Michael it's okay you know it's
okay to miss everybody misses guess
let's learn from it move forward she's
like I didn't miss and say go up there
there's no blood there's no anything
we think we're tracking it we walk up
yes you know she missed and we walked
back down and there's just little tiny
just ribbit in the ground if there was
twenty yards away Wow
yeah amazing show you a picture after
God feel stupid really just went all the
way through Excel he's on him back
behind you know but that's a problem
right they see the dust kick up behind
the animal and they think that it's a
mess yeah so yeah but you we have that
meat from this last year in Colorado
that's amazing about it with the family
and she's like she knows that she
provided that for all of us and very
exciting rewarding for her and their
little guy he's he got his first animal
in Africa this last year
whoa yes I went back to the crazy place
to get your first day yeah so crazy so
I've been over there doing some more
research I went to South Africa to help
train up an anti poaching unit because
they hadn't used Glocks hadn't used em
force a little bit of experience with
both those weapon systems and I want to
do some research in the art and science
of man tracking so I went to South
Africa helped train up this anti
poaching unit it was an amazing
experience and then they asked me to
come back as a thank you to with my
family over the over the summer so I
came back with my with my family and our
little guy got his first animal there
they put the blood on his cheeks I
picture him in the back of the Land
Cruiser on the way back is he's never
had a haircut at age nine he's blond
hair blowing in the wind it's awesome
and then we use every piece of it that's
what's great about over there is they
see you use much more than we use over
here I mean stomach linings like
everything gets used in Africa which is
cool for them to see because they think
we're using it all here they see us
taking that rib meeting then neck meat
and all the rest of it but over there
they see everything get used which is a
pretty cool thing for them to experience
at that at that young age so it helps to
be self-reliant too it's and they see
the people out there working on the Land
Cruisers they see all everything you
have to do in Africa that you can just
call someone to fix the plumbing and
call someone cuz the electricity is out
or whatever you fix it yourself
cuz you have to how did you get to be a
land cruiser for now how'd that happen
cash you know I found out about icon
2006 or so I think it was maybe five and
it's from seeing him overseas
so I saw the Hilux is first in
Afghanistan 2003 I think it was you're
seeing these things over there and then
you're seeing what we're doing to them
we have some mechanics over there that
are bolting on armor and they're doing
things to the engine and they're putting
in these radio consoles stuff for our
secure communications and they're like
wow this is pretty cool and then I saw
the evolution of the Hilux over the next
15 years and got to see these things
purpose-built from factory to and after
marketplace that then does all that
stuff that we were doing in Afghanistan
with with screwdrivers and the rest of
it I got to see what those look like and
that was pretty sweet and you just see
how much abuse they can take and what
they're going up and over and so I think
it was seeing the Hilux and then looking
into uh I'm able get into coma when I
get back because I saw these things over
there and they stink last forever it was
amazing and some crazy experiences in
them and then I was like Oh Land
Cruisers this is pretty sweet and I just
it was a natural thing for me to like
older stuff and more classic stuff and
then to also like classic stuff that
looks old but it's really new and can
really well 62s just like that portion
that I have out there where the metal is
thicker and heavier gauge like you shut
those doors like oh this is not a it's
just different they're just they just
made they're made different yeah so I
started doing my research and I think
I'm the first thing that pops up when
you put in like you know restoration for
Land Cruisers is his icon yeah there's a
bunch of other people doing it now but
John gets really mad
I mean he gets mad at people doing
shitty jobs of restoring Broncos or
shitty jobs restoring Land Cruisers and
I guess he's got every right to I mean
he's so meticulous and they're so what
they do is just incredible I'm it's
amazing like it's one of those build it
and they will come type businesses you
know who was gonna buy a three thousand
man our restoration job out of 95 Land
Cruisers it's right not that many niche
market yeah he owns that fucking niche
yeah and on so many other cars too I'm
so fortunate that he's you know down the
road yeah I can hang out with him and
talk to him and I listen to monitor
podcast I listened to him there so and
then I drove up from LA and gave him a
had them start working on my FJ 6 2 when
we were in San Diego
doing a stage 1 kind of making sure all
the belts and stuff we're good and you
know whatever is kind of making sure it
wasn't gonna fall apart
but I always wanted to do that stage 3
or that icon type restoration and I
always had my eye on that and then my
landcruiser broke down my wife was
driving it and the oil came out engine
seized crack engine block like not good
it's her fault
but anyway so it sat in our driveway for
a couple years as I'm getting out of the
military and that's kind of a bummer
seeing it there but get that deal and
some of the first things I did was send
that up to Jonathan get in line I did
get mine was behind us he's like yeah
you're just behind Joe so I had to wait
for your 80 to get down I didn't have a
few of them working at the same time but
they do a cool picture with yours and
mine yours was just getting done or the
frame off or whatever and then mine was
they're kind of looking dilapidated in
the back just waiting you know like say
you have to 18 months you had to wait
that's wrong that's crazy so that was
cool so it just showed up the other day
and of course I'm not really I want to
show people or whatever but at the same
time people are hurting right now show
it this is not a time to be flossing no
it's sweet though that thing is legit so
I love it so it's natural for me to put
them in the books and that's and usually
like that I want to say thank you to
Jonathan for doing that so just like I
put SiC in the books for my friend John
Hart who started sick like I think it's
on the first or second page of my first
novel is sick of year so you know that's
woven in there and I just love to do
that sort of thing yeah it was cool gave
me a bunch of smiles to all the
different things the black rifle Coffee
Dudley yeah all that stuff is very cool
now when when you're in the middle of
this book now what it what is your
timeline like how far how far have you
been like how long have you been writing
on this fourth book so I outlined it I
had the idea for awhile but I was still
finishing up the third one so on the way
to Russia outlined it because I didn't
have a computer how do you do that so
this time I used I still third one I
outlined it in word and then I got my
Scrivener set up and then I transferred
it over and did the writing in words of
this one I did the outline in Scrivener
and I'm writing it in his script as well
so I had those little post things or
whatever they call them and Scribner
with a little description of the chapter
so I've outlined it that way but I
started routing longhand cuz I didn't
have my computer with me on the way
Rush's didn't want to take it to trial
all that information sucked out when I
walked through customs so just legal pad
and just wrote it out and just arrows
and things and Asterix is and all that
just a mess
so I did that back then got home
finished up book three and then started
writing look for but I'm also doing the
research so you have to I'm diving into
books I'm talking to those doctors as
I'm talking to them and getting other
ideas about how to move the plot forward
different things that can test the
protagonist so this theme of this next
one is really the ethics morality and
legality behind targeted assassinations
and the bio weapons piece is really
forms the foundation of that but really
what the protagonist is struggling with
is targeted assassinations and who is he
today is he now an assassin he's been a
hunter he's been a soldier he went after
these people that wronged his family and
his troop and and put them all in the
ground in that first book and now he has
a yes but it's a mixture of a personal
and professional track that he's now
gonna take going forward because he
still it's a little unfinished business
to take care of and needs to use the
United States government to track these
guys down but he still needs to needs to
get so in as I'm doing that and
interviewing all these people I'm
thinking about how that works and I'm
reading a book it's almost done with
it's called rise first and kill by ronen
bergman and it's really about the State
of Israel and because really we think of
targeted assassinations and we don't we
associate with our government I mean we
do we've done it before we just did in
January but Israel it's much more
closely associated with Israel from its
inception up until today and it's a
fascinating books I'm getting lots of
ideas from there I'm reading David Koch
Owens it's called the snakes make some
dragons or dragon in the snakes and he's
a fascinating guy who's a
counter-terrorist advisor for Petraeus
during the surge he's become a good
friend and so I'm reading doing all that
research which helps me move the plot
forward so I'm writing it I'm touching
up those outlines and I'm working that
research into the plot so at this stage
I've written probably about half of it
and it's hard to say because you never
know we're gonna get another idea or
what
it's gonna take too long but I'd say I'd
say a little more than half even though
it's all outlined I know where I'm going
know what I need to do and that first
draft is due in mid-june when you when
you write out an outline but then in the
middle of your writing do you ever have
these like Stephen King apparently
doesn't write outlines
he's a they call him a pantser right
Betsy your pants yeah what are your
thoughts on that I mean like when you
read that he does that and he's I mean
I'm a giant Stephen King fan he's
probably written some of the most
amazing horror novels ever probably I
mean not probably has and what an
amazing story also about during the work
being persistent being resilient
incredibly hit by a bus I know every
bone in his body is broken historian in
on writing about him starting back up
again and his wife setting him up and
but what do you think about someone who
writes like that I mean with his
incredible results I mean ya know it's
Holly also earlier shit like The Shining
and apparently doesn't even remember
writing Cujo Wow
yeah he talked about that he was so
fucked up and I didn't even remember
writing it Hey I mean it makes me want
to do more drugs it's I do think about
that when I'm up late and it's 3:30 in
the morning I'm exhausted I know the
kids are gonna be up at 6:30 7:00 or
whatever but yeah you've wrote just the
craziest shit but I your stuff's pretty
fucking crazy too but yourself is crazy
in a sense that I think these things
really happen you know like like even
like the tortures and I wanted to talk
to you about that too like the torture
scene like there's I've seen so many
pencil necks talk about you know don't
be rude but I shouldn't even said that
but people who talk about torture saying
that torture doesn't work I'm like how
can you say torture doesn't work like by
what statistic and I've seen people say
these today we shouldn't torture because
torture doesn't work and like how do you
first of all how do you know have you
tortured someone like how do you know
where you what are you basing this off
and why are you saying it was
authority and resolve yeah Authority and
resolve and conviction that you know
based on statistics of something you
rather torture doesn't work it seems to
me like if people have information and
they don't want to give up that
information yeah we we don't want to
think of ourselves as being this
barbaric type of civilization that would
torture someone to get information out
of them but also if you want to look at
it pragmatically that is how you would
get people to talk so to say that
torture doesn't work and in fact people
who are tortured will say anything and
well that's says who
yeah I hate that kind of conversation
because you are because it's an it's an
anti-military conversation a lot of ways
because it's the same it's the same kind
of mentality that sort of dismisses all
sorts of tactics that are used to
protect people that don't they have the
luxury of not knowing what needs to be
done or how it is done yep so it's very
it's very complex and it's very simple
and I obviously use this in my writing
and I did in that first book because the
protagonist had to become that terrorist
become that insurgent yeah so he had to
adopt those tactics and he had
essentially to I had to abandon
everything that he'd been fighting for
for the past 16 years to go after these
people that wronged his family and his
troop so as far as that the torture
stuff goes so I got to explore it in a
fictional sense so in real life it's
important to talk about these things
with your troop so at the tactical
leadership level where where I was my
entire career whether I was just a brand
new guy enlisted guy or a troop
commander at the end it was important
especially once a 9/11 happened to talk
about these things before we're in a
situation where we called it first we
call it bit first we call it battlefield
interrogation and then it became TQ
tactical questioning a lot more PC to
call it tactical questioning rather than
battlefield interrogation but you had to
talk about it ahead of time so that your
guys would know what was appropriate at
a time so they're not in a situation
where an IG has just gone off
one of our guys is killed and now we
have someone we think is responsible for
that and there's one or two of us three
of us in this room with him what are
those guys gonna do well they're
emotional and maybe we haven't talked
about it ahead of time so what are they
gonna do they're gonna well who knows
but point being before we get there
during training it can't just be a brief
bye
like up a pencil neck lawyer that comes
in and says all right this is a
non-print this is yes exactly
it can't be that it has to be
incorporated into the training it has to
be discussed by people that are trusted
and so that when someone's in that
situation he knows what one is
appropriate because of the second and
third order effects that may come from
it yeah you might want to put a bullet
in that guy you might want to torture
him whatever but second third or effects
of doing that could be more devastating
to this unit to them the our strategy as
a whole that we're trying to accomplish
over there so we need to talk about it
ahead of time so for me it was important
that for the eyes to know that we have
to maintain the moral high ground
because there's a very few things that
separate us from our enemy when you get
down to it you're both killing you're
both killing each other
and there has to be something that makes
it different for us and that's
maintaining the moral high ground we do
not deliberately target civilians that's
a big differentiation they they target
civilians on purpose to get the
political end that they want so that is
a huge differentiator right there the
torture thing is so interesting because
of definitions so is making someone
uncomfortable torture right is
waterboarding torture is that tort well
they did it to my sere class here is
survival evasion resistance escape and
we all go through this training back
then when I went through it it was based
on Vietnam you're a type
experiences that people had had in in
Vietnam and it's morphed a little bit
over time but I it's they waterboarded
people and they water poor people in my
class if you did something that they
thought the instructors thought would
get you killed in real life or get
somebody else killed in real life so
being a model prisoner it did not happen
to me but to my buddy
he got waterboarded because you did
something that the instructors thought
would get you could it's crazy they put
you in this prison camp or they're
speaking a different language a made-up
language their sights that you look like
you're in a prison camp because it's
built like that there smells they're
cooking weird things so the smells feel
like you're in a different country so
all these different sensory inputs are
telling you that you're not in the
United States anymore and you get
slapped around they call it camp
slapping so you're gonna slap it around
so which is different but you get
waterboard if you do something wrong so
is that torture a torturing US service
members it's making them uncomfortable
for a while so these definitions are
very important when we start talking
about some buddy in sitting in a corner
and yours in there they're in that seat
position and they're not sleeping or
keeping them up at night is that torture
well we kept blood students up in SEAL
training for almost a week
so is that torture I I guess its
self-imposed only we're all volunteering
to do it this guy's not volunteering to
sit there in the corner but we also
snatched him off the battlefield and we
think you might have some information
and it's putting him in an uncomfortable
seated position is that torture some
would say yes so it's crazy in that when
it becomes politicized and the enemy
gets to use it and when I say an enemy I
also talk mean all their social media
type networks all journalists that are
sympathetic to the cause or whatever as
soon as that can be morphed and called
torture and become a distraction and
become something that undermines the
mission as a whole then you have to look
at it and say okay what are we getting
by what we're doing in Guantanamo what
what what how versus how much is that
hurting and helping the enemy's
recruiting efforts and I don't know
where that is I don't know what those
numbers look like or where that tipping
point is but as soon as the enemy can
get something and use it for their own
benefit like having black sites if we
didn't know the black sites existed you
know that would be wonderful but
everyone knows that black sites exist
it's explained black sites it's just a
a base that is typically set up by
another government agency with the
knowledge of a different government and
so it's not in the United States it's
not on US soil to let the other
government do the things that they can
do that we can't essentially so it's off
the books type site but everyone knows
what it is because it's been on cover of
the page of the New York Times and
everywhere else as soon as that becomes
something that the enemy can then
leverage at what point do does does it
hurt us more than help us to have those
and at what point does it hurt us more
than help us to quote unquote torture
someone or continue waterboarding or to
put somebody in these seated positions
and to have that be the distraction and
I don't know the answer but it's
something that needs to be thought of
and talked about and at the tactical
level the guys have to know that we need
to maintain that moral high ground
that's the only thing in a lot of cases
that differentiates us from the enemy
and we have to hold that ground that's
imperative so as leader you got to talk
about it and the guys have to know that
once you have somebody much like a
police officer here in the States once
they have you cuffed and you're on the
ground like it's over like your job now
becomes to protect that person that's
how it has to be that's what makes us
different that makes you different that
criminal that makes us different from
the enemy they're gonna if they have us
in that position they're gonna behead us
and they're gonna hold our heads up on
TV and they're gonna use it for us our
job is now to protect that person with
our life that's the difference between
us and the enemy at the base level so
it's important to talk about that
important for the guys to understand it
so that when they're in that position
it's a guy's first deployment and his
friend is wounded or dead and he thinks
this guy is behind it that he doesn't
execute him when he has his hands cuffed
behind him so it's important stuff to
talk about important stuff to think
about and and it's it's tough it's it's
tough thing to grapple with and those
those are the variables right public
perception whether or not that
perception or the knowledge of things
that have been done could be used
against our troops or used against our
country as a whole and in social media
and perception but the the idea that
this is what would have driven me crazy
about it is that those hard fast
statements that torture doesn't work and
I'm like which
I don't know what you're saying yeah it
probably works in some situations maybe
not nothing I mean you know when people
say that I'm like I bet I can get you to
say yes better I can get you to tell me
where your fucking car keys yeah no
exactly like what are you saying
right well of course they it works yeah
like the idea that it does and then
they'll say it and it's always really
left-wing people that'll stay
statistically torture doesn't work yeah
what's do they say okay who's been
keeping these stats since the beginning
of time bitch have you ever seen any but
or tchard like what are you talking
about I kept you up you would tell me
everything all I have to do is keep you
up yep no I mean there's a reason people
have been doing it from the beginning of
time yeah some places it didn't work or
whatever but at that outside that
tactical level when we're talking about
that next stage where the world knows
about it where media knows about it
where they're driving that story and
they're helping the enemy by shining a
light on these things that may or may
not work doesn't matter whether it works
or not it's it's detrimental at this
point and whatever that point is then
it's time to abandon it do you find that
now that you're a prominent voice in the
world of fiction authors and the fact
that your your your novels have a lot to
do with like real places and real things
and real issues do you get asked
questions do you do get asked to give
statements or get have your opinion on
things where you have to kind of measure
it and go is there a benefit to this is
there a risk to like to be talking about
yeah am i alienating people or is this
something where you can use your your
your knowledge in your position as a
platform to kind of like give your
perspective on things from an educated
point of view yeah so it's it's for me
it is very it's hard for me not to tell
the truth like I'm the worst liar on
earth and my wife will tell you so it
it's very natural for me to answer
honestly but then also to be thoughtful
and that's why they're not novels I
think also another reason they resonated
with Simon & Schuster is because it's
thoughtful violence that's how I think
of it it's not just shoots the guy than
E or whatever it's thoughtful violence
which is why those tear this torture
scenes are so intricate and involved -
that one with the Russian mobsters
hey yeah there's some good ones I won't
come with that to be a kind of homework
of this series is that there are things
that people haven't seen before and it's
not just extra violence it's thoughtful
violence so I don't worry about
alienating it's it's more about me being
honest because people can tell like if
you especially today
like maybe twenty years ago you could
have hidden it but you behind managers
and reputation minute what ever you call
it today you can't really hide if you're
on social media like I think eventually
if you have a thousand some posts people
are gonna glean and you're doing it and
it's not obvious that it's just a
manager that's doing it and it's a
picture of you know you or not really
it's not you it's obvious it's not you
I'm talking about what it's obvious it's
you it's hard I think to not be
authentic and to let something slip
through yeah I think eventually yeah I
think I mean and you can see things that
aren't appropriate you're like oh my why
would this person say that well you know
why because it's that like that's that's
why like people don't understand the
ramifications of posting things that and
like you were saying how you got brought
in by NCIS that one thing could be taken
out of context yeah and used against you
in a really weird way oh yeah and I used
to think oh no we're on the same side
and you know it's all about know people
are after a win really disturbing
revelation oh it was and that's why that
book is so powerful in that scene why
how those guys go down is still violent
because it was therapeutic for me I
didn't have to actually go out and do it
myself I guess we were on the pages of a
thriller but for me it's interesting so
I do get asked I am I do go on different
shows now as military analysts they ask
me things and I answer honestly and I
try to do it in a thoughtful way so
example being the was the CEO of the
Roosevelt that was relieved last couple
weeks because he wrote this letter and
you know it's framed by senior level
officials as he sent out essentially I
can open letter it sounded made it sound
like he sent it out to his entire
address book and he went above the chain
of command and so he was fired it didn't
go through the right proper channels and
it smelled weird to me from the
beginning because you don't get to be in
command of a nuclear-powered aircraft
carrier by being like
just some guy right like you know the
military you're in for like 25 years at
this point you're a captain and I would
be shocked if he had not exhausted every
other Avenue to try to get out what he
needed to have done and he's responsible
for fighting that aircraft carrier he's
also responsible for the men under his
command and he and now we have like 900
cases on that ship that's to explain to
people the the ship was infected yep so
they had a couple cases I think they had
three to start with on an aircraft
carrier at a docked in Thailand or
something like that you know maybe in
January early February something like
that before really things got out of
control
so you're an aircraft carrier and the
only place worse than a ship in a
circumstance like this was an infectious
disease is probably a submarine but he
saw what was happening and he saw it
starting to spread he saw it as saw that
it was impossible to abide by social
distance distancing guidelines and once
you do when you actually have it not
just social distancing but once you have
it how you isolate somebody impossible
to do on a ship and so he saw that and
then the story is that he wrote a letter
out a letter and it got picked up by the
Chronicle in Northern California and
that just went out to this huge number
of people so went out to 20 people it
was I've read the letter it's four pages
it's very very well done very thoughtful
it gives two courses of action one up
we're at war and how we can keep
fighting the ship and two if we're not
at war need to take care of these guys
and be ready for when war comes so it's
very clearly delineated in these four
pages very professional it's on Navy
letterhead and it went out to 20 people
and for me I thought you know what this
is very strange that that he's being
attacked like this from senior level
leaders making it seem like he's sending
out to his entire like gmail address
book now it's still US Navy dot mil or
whatever it's not a secret it's a secret
communication but there's official Navy
emails that aren't secret as well and
yeah it bypassed the chain of command I
guess but that at some point I think is
his responsibility he's to keep that
ship fighting and who knows what the
personal relationship was between him
and the guy above him or whatever
I think there's something investigation
will show it and now that and then the
the Secretary of the Navy flies from
Washington DC to Guam to give a speech
to these people on the aircraft carrier
and he says that the captain has just
been relieved of duty was either stupid
or incompetent if he thought that what
he wrote in that email wasn't gonna get
out to the press meanwhile the ironic
part is that whole thing is videotaped
that whole speech is taped and there's
audio that makes it out to the media so
that's the funny part for me but then
also so then he's fired a couple days
later oh geez and then the Secretary of
the army or the secondary defense now
writes a letter an open letter that says
essentially the same thing as the
captain of the aircraft carrier wrote a
few days earlier the got him fired so
it's really interesting I went on some
of these some of these shows and got to
sit down with a couple different people
with military backgrounds and I was the
only one saying that something doesn't
smell right here and this guy has a
responsibility to fight that ship to
support his his soldiers our sailors and
something's just not right about this
and now we'll see what happens but but
point being yeah I do get asked about
these things and I answer honestly
because the one of the other guys were
saying on this show was that no train of
command he didn't follow the chain of
command and he should have followed that
chain of command regardless you know the
typical Navy type loner but being from
Special Operations and being a free
thinker as we're supposed to do let's be
creative we're supposed to think
you think read sell things from the
enemy's side think about it from that
side of the house and do what what we do
which is why we can trouble a lot of the
time in Special Operations because we're
kind of not military and I mean we're
military but you know we like to like to
not break the rules we like to bend them
to a certain extent to get what we need
done and that's just very natural for us
but when you're sitting down with people
aren't like that don't think that way
it's kind of interesting but point being
I do get asked about these things and I
don't really measure it against if I can
alienate people or not it's just that I
would be honest and be open I would be
authentic and that's what people can
trust about me and they can trust about
my writing is that when they read that
they know that I just didn't get it from
somebody else like it's a part of me
somehow and it's very personal even
though it's fiction and that's what you
can trust and if my protagonist is using
a certain weapon or a certain knife or a
sir it's not just that I googled Navy
SEAL knife
and someone or someone saying and then
he pulled out his Navy SEAL dagger
instead like no that's not how it goes
you're know exactly who made it with a
relationship all that sort of thing so
what people can trust is that they're
gonna get my honest assessment that's
what I owe the guys in the teams I owed
them my honest assessment that's what I
would the people above me in the chain
of command no matter what it did I owe
them my honest assessment because that's
what they could trust they didn't have
to worry about whether I'm just telling
them something just because I think
that's what they want to hear where I'm
looking to get ahead because I've never
wanted this to be a career in the
military I was just in there to fight
and delete but that's what they can
trust who's my honest assessment and so
that's how I deal with today I'm just
gonna answer honestly but it will be
thoughtful it's not going to be like an
off the cuff craziness that I haven't
have to go back and retractor I hope
it's not gonna be it's gonna be
thoughtful because that's what I that's
what I owed that guy's also was that
thoughtful assessments both up and down
the chain so that's just natural for me
to do and what you're gonna get today
well this mindset in this the the
discipline and the authenticity it comes
out in your writing man I know I started
with the last one and I have to start
yeah you were a little bummed out that I
was like starting with the last one
right well the most people get invested
in the character like people ask me like
can I start with this third one and the
publisher wants me to say yes start with
the third one now let me tell you you
could absolutely start with the third
maybe I'll be more invested if I start
with the first I don't know man but the
third one was fucking great I loved it
and I'm gonna get into the first two now
listen you knocked it out of the park
man it was amazing amazing book I'm
excited to read the first two now people
can follow you is it Jack Carr USSR USA
on the socials most active on Instagram
and Twitter
there is a Facebook but three was too
much so USA and then official Jack are
calm is the is the website and people
can go deep dive into weapons or knives
or gear on that sort of thing so right
ma'am well thanks brother I appreciate
you thanks thank you for what you do for
for hunting and for those of us that are
self-reliant and forgiving this really
opening people's eyes to what they can
do to be better citizens and better
prepare going forward so thank you for
all you do my pleasure my pleasure thank
you bye everybody
[Music]